Software Development Process
Name
Listed As
CS-6300
Credit Hours
3
Available to
CS and CY students
Description
The process of developing software systems. Includes development and assessment of processes, their instantiation in actual product development, and techniques ensuring quality of developed products.
Syllabus
Textbooks
No textbooks found.

Review 1
gmWL+76oxQYdHb0wFFIk3Q==May 20, 2026spring 2026
Arguably the worst course I've ever taken with OMSCS and I am about 8 courses into this program and I have gotten nothing out of it. The content is not hard but very outdated. Instead of spending time to update the content as well as course policies, the instructors and TAs seem to focus on making the course very cumbersome for students to manage with assignments locked until the week of, A LOT of random administrative tasks, inability to pick our group members for the group project, outdated AI usage policy, etc. While students are expected to prioritize the class on a weekly basis (if you have something going on in your adult life and want to work ahead? Nope, good luck.), TA's are extremely untimely in their gradings - grades on an assignments would not be released until 4-5 weeks after the assignment is due despite the promise of grades being released in 2 weeks. The class is overall very poorly managed and need a complete overhaul.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 2
N7TeG3r8JXATtUnI8xlOZg==May 8, 2026spring 2026
Solid introductory course. Not a very interesting class if you already understand the SDLC principles. If you want a calm class or a relaxing summer this is a good course. I wouldn't recommend if you want to take interesting classes and be challenged.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 3
XxopPVjL0mU+bPEGTNxVbw==April 27, 2026spring 2026
This was my 8th class and it was an overall pleasant one to take. You'll learn the formalized/academic standards for software development processes as well as a chance to play around with an android app developer. The overall technical difficulty level for this course is relatively low as anyone that is somewhat comfortable with coding is able to get a good grade in this class but you do need to put your time into the projects and assignments. You should not expect much help from the TAs besides clarifications on instructions or other more administrative inquiries, but the class is designed in such a way that you will still have opportunities to excel even without their assistance.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 15 hours / week

Review 4
QJfnPoFqMua2oeZuSZNI1g==April 8, 2026spring 2026
The course content itself is very easy. It is borderline surprising this is a graduate-level course; however, even as an experienced software engineer it was useful to review some content and learn a small handful of new pieces of information. This is a good class to get a break from harder courses or pair with a harder course.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 5
GOgTqGxWG9t1dh0dOQbgDQ==February 8, 2026fall 2025
Overall grade: A (99.56%)
Background: BS in Computer Science. 3 years of STEM work experience (not as a software engineer).
Lectures: The lectures are still from Professor Orso, even though he has moved to a new college. The videos are very high quality, and I enjoyed listening to the lectures. The material is presented in an engaging way that makes it easy to follow. In addition, the instructors include a set of notes from a previous student, which were still up-to-date with the current version of the course materials from what I could tell.
Exams/Quizzes: There are no exams or quizzes in this course.
Assignments: There are 6 individually-completed assignments, 1 group project, and 1 individual project. The first 5 individual assignments are easy points. The 6th one is significantly more tricky - more like a set of mini puzzles. However, once you figure out the answer, you will know it is correct. I caution that a previous reviewer of this class mentioned something along the lines of "you will lose more points than you would gain if you attempt and fail the extra credit" is VERY TRUE. If you do not think you have correctly satisfied the extra credit on assignment 6, then just do not attempt it. Each assignment took approximately this much time to complete:
survey - less than 30 min
git - around 2 hours (the assignment has some tricky wording, so I had to re-do part)
java programming - 4-6 hours
simple Android app - 6-8 hours, most of my time was spent trying to compile correctly because my Android Studio version was newer than what the assignment supported.
UML diagram - 5-7 hours.
testing - 8-10 hours
Group Project: I luckily got a very good team. I think it is partly because I had no experience as a software engineer, so all of my teammates were software engineers. We communicated regularly on a private Discord group and were able to split the workload evenly amongst everyone. Despite not having past work experience as a SWE, I have written code in my current job and have a BS in Computer Science, so I was able to contribute a good amount to the team. We finished each deliverable well before the deadline. I can see how having a bad group would significantly impact your enjoyment of this class. I feel very lucky to have had a group much better than any I had in undergrad group projects.
Individual Project: There are 4 deliverables, one due each week. They each take a vastly different amount of time to complete, with some requiring a lot of work and others being very easy. I don't think I can give away specifics of what each deliverable includes, so without any descriptions of the instructions, here is approximately how long I worked on each portion:
16 hours
15 minutes to get 100%. Then another 2-3 hours attempting the extra credit (which I did not manage to complete).
5-8 hours
30 minutes
Participation: In addition to the coursework mentioned above, there is also a group participation/collaboration grade (10%) and overall class participation grade (3%). My group participation grade was 99% despite all teammates agreeing that we each pulled our weight in the project. I saw another reviewer suggest that the TAs may have a hidden set of criteria they use to finalize your collaboration score - I'm not sure if this is true or not though. My overall class participation grade was 100% despite not participating on EdStem much. I was very annoyed at the spammy students who would 'participate' by chaining 20+ "Thank you"s at the end of someone else's post. I did not do any of that and only participated when I had something legitimate to ask, answer, or share that would contribute to the conversation and still earned a 100% grade for participation.
Overall: I felt that the effort required to earn a high grade was low. Not much coding was required, and the code that was assigned was mostly trivial. In this class, I learned a lot more about the documentation developed in the process of creating large pieces of software, but I wish there were more assignments about these pieces of documentation since that was my main takeaway from the class. The only time we wrote documentation for an assignment was the group project, but it was split among various group members. I would have liked more of the documentation to be done individually.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 6
R9YJJzBXzFTCeDom1vLnDg==December 15, 2025fall 2024
My experience was generally consistent with past reviews. Worthwhile if you have no/limited agile development experience, like coding in Java, and want an easy class to pair with another. I actually think the course was well organized, the lectures and assignments were reasonably well designed, though seriously outdated (e.g. group project is an android app coded in XML and Java).
The group project itself was a mixed bag. The instructors did a reasonable job pairing people with complimentary skills in my group but regardless I just think groups are hard in an online class. The project itself was a missed opportunity to create something that someone would actually want as a portfolio project.
Another gripe I have is the strict weekly release and submission schedule making it hard to organize the class around other commitments and weekend plans.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 7
R/mDYLrlsAd4LJEtZJWniw==September 3, 2025summer 2025
Assignment 6 man. I was on track to get through this class with ease but then got hit with the 20% on this assignment and ended up with a C...
TAs were okay, group project was okay, individual project was actually kind of fun.
Please take assignment 6 seriously.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 8
G8L8g7pcwFkxJFkUQRdFHA==August 7, 2025spring 2025
Good first class to take in the program. Helped me get the hang of being back in school. Projects were relative easy to complete minus the group projects. I got lucky with my group mates tho as everyone is doing their part but I can see this can be frustrating if there is someone in the team not working their part. Overall enjoyed the class. I did not have background in Java and Android but was able to figure out and finish the projects. However I've been working as frontend engineer for a while now which helped.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 9
lVaErvC+H+S2COrzPeOalw==August 6, 2025summer 2025
Finished the course with an A, achieving a 90.81%
Background:
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science from a university ranked #377 out of 436 National Universities in U.S. News
English is my second language (TOEFL score: 95/120)
1 year of experience as a full-stack developer and 6 months of experience in data analytics
Overall:
This is the fifth class I’ve taken, and I find it interesting how it teaches both basic concepts and what to focus on as a software engineer. Now that I’m writing test cases, I’m more aware of what needs to be covered and which parts of the code aren’t. Even if you don’t know Java or Android development, this class can motivate you to learn—especially since it's graded. I’d say that after taking this class, I have a good understanding of Java and Android development syntax and how they work together.
Grading and Weight:
Participation (3 / 3%): I answered and asked a few questions on Ed Discussion (around 10 in total) and received full points.
Assignment 1 (2 / 2%): Just a survey.
Assignment 2 (5 / 5%): Introduction to Git. As long as you follow the instructions, it’s not difficult.
Assignment 3 (10 / 10%): Introduction to Java. Similar to Assignment 2, just follow the instructions. Since I was new to Java, I had to look up some syntax online. But if you know any programming language, this should be pretty easy.
Assignment 4 (10 / 10%): Introduction to Android Studio. I spent more time on this one because I was completely new to both mobile development and Java. This assignment requires you to pass objects between classes, so I recommend starting early if you have no prior experience like me.
Assignment 5 (2 / 2%): As long as you present a reasonable design, the TA likely won’t grade too harshly. There’s no “correct” solution as long as you can justify your design choices, you should get full credit. Based on Ed Discussion, most point deductions came from syntax issues.
Group Project (17.19 / 18%): This depends heavily on your group. I was lucky to have a responsible team that everyone contributed, discussed implementation ideas, and divided the workload fairly. Even though all four of us were new to Java and Android Studio, we worked well together. I can imagine it would be a bad experience if your teammates don’t participate.
Collaboration (Group Project) (9.9 / 10%): Since our group worked well together, I believe we all deserved full marks. However, many people mentioned they received scores around 9.5 to 10, so I suspect there might be a hidden rubric involved.
Assignment 6 (8.745 / 15%): This is a very important and challenging assignment, as it determines the final grade. Unfortunately, I didn’t perform well on it, and even after reviewing the solution, I still don’t fully understand what the assignment is about. I understand this may be important if you're pursuing a role as a testing engineer, but my focus is on full-stack development and data analytics. In my job, the kinds of tests we write aren’t closely related to the material covered in this assignment.
Individual Project (22.975 / 25%): I really liked this project. It felt like solving puzzles or LeetCode problems. To score 100% (or even extra credit), you need to carefully consider edge cases. While not everyone may enjoy it, I did my best and was happy with my result. The answers aren't revealed, but you’ll get some feedback on Gradescope.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 10
FMNslC4RWdacX7iQ5ONhdw==August 3, 2025summer 2025
Overall, this is a fair introduction to software development. For transparency, I took this course mostly to avoid having to take GA because it seems like a ton of work with overall poor experience and I've already taken an algo class in undergrad. For context, I'm almost done with this program.
For every course, I think it's important to try to understand what are the "skills" that a course teaches or helps reinforce if you choose to take it. SDP provides you with some basic experience in the following skills:
Working with Git & Github (committing, PRs, merge conflicts)
Writing unit tests and implementing a utility with Java
Working with a test driven development methodology and tool
Designing and developing an Android application as a group
The ability to read documentation and interpret requirements
Producing UML diagrams and documentation
I finished with a high A in the course and my strongest advice to anyone (which goes beyond just this class tbh): learn to read assignments carefully. To those complaining about the TAs, the student body in this course was the worst case I've seen of people constantly re-posting redundant questions or things that are clearly outlined in the assignment instructions. The staggering amount of poor posts is a canary to me that people are clearly not reading the instructions.
It's probably true you need to be extra careful in this class compared to others. If you misread or interpret something, it can definitely cost you some points. Want a tip? Before you start and prior to submitting an assignment, read the Ed Discussion board posts to go over anything that you may have misinterpreted or that the staff has posted about. I've made this mistake in other classes but it's become a best practice now to always review the Ed Discussion board.
With regards to the Group Project, overall I would say it was fine. I wouldn't say I had the best group but we got by. Honestly the hardest part are the non-technical and kind of awkward factors of figuring out how to collaborate, divide up work, coordinate when to meet, etc. Start early and be proactive.
I personally rated this a 2/5 difficulty but if you do not have much experience with software development, this class could definitely be a lot of work. However, I'd argue that if you don't have much software experience, then the opportunity to have a good return on investment with this class is high.
Don't be afraid of the other reviews complaining about this course. An A is totally achievable; you just need to read the damn instructions.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 11
doR8pJ8kkaxcIZadPAMmvA==July 29, 2025spring 2025
The quality of the TAs in this course was extremely disappointing and terrible. Rather than supporting students, their contributions often created obstacles to learning and hindered progress toward program goals. I strongly advise others to consider alternative courses if possible.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 12
9yVqyEJRGfFtlYvEuNEz6Q==July 28, 2025summer 2024
Very elementary (got like 97%), but I had experience in android and java.
The TDD assignment was tricky
Very easy, take it only if you are very insecure about your SW skills
You might have to review and correct you teammates job in the group project, but I guess that part of the idea.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 13
11Wwcn5oDMuArd9QfJEb5w==June 1, 2025spring 2025
This class was significantly easier than my similar sophomore year CS class. There are no tests which is super nice and its all project based. All of the projects and lectures were pretty straightforward, including the group project. There's one unit testing assignment where the class average is like 71 and that can kill some peoples grades. It happens every year because they don't explain the different types of testing quite well or clearly enough, and the questions are just a little ambiguous. You can get all the problems right with enough double checking and second guessing but hopefully they'll improve that assignment
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 14
25sNECyoohtQtPinNu8eww==May 12, 2025spring 2025
Overall: I thought this was a good first course. The course takes you through many different software development paradigms and software patterns - agile, waterfall, scrum, x-treme programming, factory pattern, strategy pattern, etc. The assignments teach you a lot of skills you may not know if you don't have a background in CS. The lectures holds your hand before your assignment journey. The office hours are nice because the instructor answers whatever questions are commented in the OH thread.
Assignments:
The first assignment is a simple survey to figure out team placements, which you get after the first 5 assignments are submitted.
The second assignment is a simple github introduction. If you follow all the directions as stated you'll be get 100%
The third assignment is a simple Java coding exercise. It should take you a couple of hours if you haven't done any serious Java coding. Maybe two hours max if you've previously done Java development. Not too difficult conceptually to handle. All it is asking you to do is encrypt and decrypt a message stored in a java class.
This assignment introduces you to Android Studio. I strongly recommend you go through the accompanying lecture and replicate the instructor's actions. That way, you'll have a strong background to be able to do android app. On the coding side, all you need is to copy and paste the third assignment over and make a responsive UI, which you learn in the tutorial lecture.
The fifth assignment asks you to layout the design wireframe/UML for the app that you'll create with your group mates. This shouldn't take you too long. You'll be discussing it with your teammates soon enough.
Group Project:
For this group project, you create an app that tracks and compares different job offers. The first two weeks of the project require you to sketch out a couple different diagrams on how testing, UI design, use-case design, and component analysis will go. The lectures give you an example of each of those diagrams. The next two are a speed run of building the entire app. Please make sure you stash away a lot of time to complete the app. It is difficult to get everything done in a week or two.
Individual Project:
The individual project focuses in on the testing unit of the class. They have you use their testing generator - which is an interesting tool. One I might actually incorporate into my own job. This project has you implement the mutate text operation of the cli tool box. Ordinarily, this would be about a week endeavor. However, they require you to use the testing framework and build tests which they give you two weeks to do.
Assignment 6: The last assignment you do involves the testing unit again. They present you a bunch of hypotheticals that cover certain testing metrics. Then ask if the testing metrics encompass other ones in attempting to find an error. Becareful reading the instructions on this one. You might also want to attend office hours.
Grading:
Grading is relatively chill. Many of the assignments have auto-graders, so you'll know your grade as long as there isn't a academic conduct violation. The grades are curved a tiny bit at the end, but I think it's just a couple of points.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 15
RadUHmNAM2Eel0fvwEKV6ClfqQzavWZESRkwywSXU/0=April 23, 2025fall 2024
This is a good introductory course for software engineering and Java.
If you already have experience with that, you might find this too easy.
The assignments are interesting and useful. Groups are assigned by instructors. Getting a good/bad group can definitely influence your experience
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 16
1f2dHYbVWqNiGsZDLA7qVg==April 22, 2025spring 2025
Background: Bachelors in biomedical engineering and now working in data engineering. This was my 5th course in OMSCS. Barely any Java experience besides self learning on YouTube.
There was a moderate learning curve to Java but nothing crazy. The first few assignments provided a great intro to the language and software development as a whole.
This class is really well run, lecture are informative, and the projects are interesting. Some of them are tedious, but I never felt they were extremely challenging. All of them can be completed in a few hours of hard work (except for the group project).
I didn't know anything about Software Engineering prior to this course and I'm going to finish with a comfortable A.
Took this course with an easy one as well and only felt really stressed a few times.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 17
sO8OJlQ/P8sVDM5eftGHRA==April 21, 2025spring 2025
This was not a difficult course and was okay overall. I'm not sure what they could have done differently to make it better. It's a course I'm required to take and I just didn't find the material that interesting. It's not a bad class, this is just my own opinion.
The group project only goes for 4 weeks, and thankfully I had a good group to work with. My only gripe is with Assignment 6. I didn't hate it, but despite my best efforts I still scored very poorly on it. It also has a weight of 15% of your grade, so I am barely scraping by with an A despite having 100% on every other assignment (Individual Assignment not graded yet as of this writing).
It's a fine course, but if you have the option maybe choose something else.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 18
oNL7Ev7Ujc7Tzw+MO8CaFw==February 11, 2025fall 2024
Not necessarily a difficult class for the average OMSCS student, but not a "free" A (the folks who say this class is a free A are probably veterans in the field). The infamous assignment 6 near the end of the class dropped a lot of students from getting an A, to a B or C. Take your time with assignment 6.
The assignment instructions are wordy and it felt like a lot of students lost points in the details of the assignment rather than the concept + coding.
I didn't find the lectures helpful, all the lectures except the demo were elementary compared to the actual work of the class. Additionally, the lectures feel vague and outdated.
The staff was very responsive and attentive, answering all questions (even the dumb ones) without judgment. Shoutouts to the teaching staff.
What made this class fun for me was having a fantastic group and a great introduction to Android Studio/Java/Kotlin. Like most of the classes in this program, the group you have for the collaboration project can make or break the class.
If you're a seasoned engineer, I wouldn't take this class unless it's part of your graduation requirements. Otherwise, it's a good class to take at the beginning of the OMSCS program.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 20 hours / week

Review 19
zgMHxawDF1NZxVYd8Iu4aw==December 30, 2024spring 2024
The full review is here:
TLDR: (thanks GPT!)
During Spring 2024, I completed the CS 6300 Software Development Process course, a core requirement for the Interactive Intelligence specialization in the OMSCS program. As a seasoned software engineer, I approached the course to gain an academic perspective on software development. The course was project-based, covering topics such as Git, unit testing, Android development, and UML design. While the workload averaged 4.3 hours per week, time demands fluctuated, with some assignments requiring significantly more effort, especially the first individual project deliverable and the white-box testing assignment. The group project emphasized Android development with team collaboration, offering a practical experience of software engineering at scale. I found the course insightful but relatively easy due to my industry experience, rating it 3.1/5 overall and 2.1/5 in difficulty. While it provided valuable fundamentals, I felt it could benefit from modern practices like Scrum, CI/CD, and containerization. For students with limited software engineering background, familiarity with Java, OOP, and external resources will be critical to success.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 4 hours / week

Review 20
9OnNVU16JiP7Z209SFe05g==December 18, 2024fall 2024
The lectures are great. The TAs are responsive. The group project can be done by 2 to 3 people if you are unfortunate. In general, it's a great course.
I have an unorthodox opinion about Assignment 6. Most people complain about it and statistically it's indeed the weirdest in terms of grade distribution. However, I felt it was one of the interesting ones. Some of the answers are literally in the course videos. So watch the videos! I also highly recommend applying "set theory" here to understand the relationships between tests.
I actually only hated Deliverable 1 from the Individual Project. It was boring and it took me forever. Maybe I just don't like repetitive tasks.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 11 hours / week

Review 21
WkpurdY94WM3aHrUljY66Q==December 15, 2024fall 2024
This course covered all the topics I wanted: version control, testing, software architecture, android development, etc. but at wayyy too high level. Software architecture was one lesson with no homework attached. Testing was a lecture on testing and then an assignment (Assignment #6) that just wanted to know gotcha testing cases instead of actually focusing on testing. In short, the topics are there but not covered at the level of detail I wanted. The class is a good one if you're a new grad, want to pair with something else, or it's your first class....otherwise I'm not sure you'd get much out of it. If you're new to coding I'd make sure you can write a basic program in java and understand object creation and the difference between static and non-static.
The good: Lectures = really good with topics clearly covered. Projects and assignments were fun (minus Assignment #6).
TLDR: Easy class, but I wish it was 1-2 levels of depth further into each topic. The teacher did mention a new course potentially coming that I think might be more relevant.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 22
00lffzO9jSap9D/Z7/QkKw==December 14, 2024fall 2024
I have been doing soft dev for a long time, therefore I have gone through all of these materials in real life. I didn't know what I was going to learn anything from it, but I was open minded to see how academia leads or catches up with the real world. Overall, the course was very good, especially for those who just entered in CS field. Also, quality-wise this course is one of the best I have taken in GaTech: it teaches you with hands-on the code. Regardless of my experience in the industry, there were things I learned too, b/c in the CS field, rarely one has the luxury to go and do deep manual analyses of code coverage, etc (Our IDEs have all the tools build in for us).
Teaching quality also is great, Prof. Orso is very methodical and explains things very well, personally organizes the weekly off-hours too.
Glad I took this course.
Warning: The course difficulty overall easy, I would have marked as something between 1 & 2, but there will be in there an assignment, that is also easy, but very tricky. One may assume has done 100% and still bomb it. I had all the assignments 100% of close to it, but I bombed this tricky one, and barely got an A. Therefore I increased the difficulty to 3.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 23
CJsHkG9iRi7KVP3msEBxlg==December 10, 2024fall 2024
This class is particularly helpful for many software engineers without formal software development education. It helps you appreciate how essential good planning and testing are.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 24
S+WaLUo7nSzAqSdAwH9PYQ==November 9, 2024spring 2024
A little bit about myself: this is my first course in this program. I have no CS background at all, but just completed the Java course recommended on the program application page. As my first official CS course and as I have very little CS knowledge, I think this course let me learn a lot useful and practical knowledge and it's not very hard to pick up. At the beginning of this course, the assignments help you master different important tool that we will need for group project. I think it is not hard, but just make sure you can spend time to learn and apply. As for group project, you cannot select who will be your team member. Group project is not very hard I think, but you need to spend time to learn and apply. It will become challenging if your group has less than 3 active contributors to the project. As for the final individual project, it is still going on and I don't have valid feedback on it yet. I think if you have experience on software development from your daily job, or you learn something similar in school, probably you won't learn much from this course. If you have learn Java, I think you can do good in this course, just make sure you can spend about 7-15 hours per week if needed to go deep and learn.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 25
dsjsxn4tDZErhMUUia3pbw==October 30, 2024summer 2024
The course content is somewhat outdated, primarily focusing on development methodologies and UML concepts that, outside of specialized fields like defense, aren't used much in industry. One assignment (Assignment 6) is particularly challenging, heavily weighted, and centers on formal logic. It feels disconnected from the rest of the course material, making it difficult and frustrating.
The group project was also a major drawback. I ended up with teammates who had little to no prior development experience, which required me to spend around 30 hours per week teaching them and completing the majority of the project on my own. This experience was frustrating enough that I've decided to avoid group projects for the rest of my degree.
Overall, I wouldn’t recommend this course for those with software development experience. The material doesn’t reflect common industry practices, and the group project can be awful if you’re paired with inexperienced teammates.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 26
DRhNRbP80f8K8JAh8aMKfQ==September 21, 2024summer 2024
not bad. class quality and TAs are good.
problem is group project. since this is one of core requirement class. there's lot of people in this class.
It means some ppl are type of "bus passengers" and literally do nothing for project. Too many people = there's always toxicity.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 27
4Oabk5zw+1/cNQe1QOdbTg==August 15, 2024spring 2024
I took SDP as my first class. I think it’s a perfect start for people like me who had no CS education background or related work experience and taught ourselves coding. The course was easy with small challenges. It was well designed. I learned git, design process, and testing. The group project, which was designing a simple Android app, gave me the opportunity to work in a team and got a taste of both frontend and backend development. Grading was also great. Almost all assignments were submitted to GS with unlimited submissions, no hidden cases, and immediate release of grade. Generous extra credits were provided.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 28
43Z2ccpL9BF2RYUXKcwKuw==August 15, 2024spring 2024
This course is pretty good until assignment 6. As most people in previous reviews said it teaches a lot about the SDLC regardless if you are already a SWE or not. The group project and every assignment until assignment 6 isn't difficult and can be done in about 10 hours or so a week. Maybe less depending on your experience. Try to stay on top of the group project because it is pretty easy to get "bad" teammates (bad teammates imo are people who either don't know much AND aren't willing to learn or teammates who don't contribute at all).
So here we go with the rant. Assignment 6 is the worst. It's not because of the assignment itself and the goals of the assignment. It is a terrible assignment because of how poorly it is written. Asking questions about A6 on the discussion forums doesn't help either because the TAs are genuinely useless and give the most vague answers.
If you are a TA or professor for this course, you should be deeply ashamed of yourself for how pathetic of an assignment you have created. Don't be a TA if you're going to give useless replies to questions or not even respond. After everyone received their grades (which is whole other issue, it takes weeks to just grade assignments when there is an autograder. It doesn't even make sense for how long it takes to grade and input grades/scores), the forums were up in flames. There were at least a dozen or so posts about A6 regarding the poor grading and questions that A6 asked. So what did the TAs or professors do? Nothing. They simply replied "sorry" and were never to be seen again. I, like many others in my class, went from a high A (97+) to a high B (87-89) with just 1 assignment. The worst part is that A6 is only a week only assignment and is worth the most, yet the group project which goes on for almost 2 months is barely worth anything.
If you can avoid taking this class, do it. It's actually a disgrace for this class to be in a great program such as OMSCS.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 29
f0vxGbMqufBjspxM8mlg/Q==August 12, 2024summer 2024
Relatively easy course (coming from soft dev background)
Assignments and individual projects are okay
Group project could be tricky because of team dynamics.
Overall, easy to get an A
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 30
decuBccQaPEytoOYiWtJ1g==August 11, 2024summer 2024
Great course if your are without a background in CS and little work experience . Lectures are good . The worst part is that you don't choose your groupmates ,I got an A ,but ended with a bad group and did most of the app myself ! .It makes an ideal easy summer course or it can be paired with something harder !
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 31
exenhSmf5lOOcSoZUrQd+Q==August 5, 2024summer 2024
As someone who does not work in software engineering, it was a useful course. My main take away was learning how to use git properly and code integration in a team setting. Some of the cons of the course was that you aren't able to select your team - I appreciate the staff grouping people in the same time zone together but some of my team preferred to work on things last minute while others preferred to work on things early which made it challenging. I also had a personal situation come up during the group project and there are no special considerations for the group project. I didn't know my team and didn't want to be a burden so contributed as best as I could which made dealing with my personal situation challenging. I can see how anyone working in software engineering may not find this course particularly stimulating, a comment from someone working in the industry was that their experience is that things work very differently in the workplace now. Overall I finished the course with a high A so I would not rate this very high in terms of difficulty and would recommend this course for anyone who is not a software developer.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 32
Mg8VbB4wqnj8Dv27PhxvHQ==August 4, 2024summer 2024
My background: I graduated with a bachelor's degree in CS last summer, and started working as a Java developer earlier this year. This was my second course in the OMSCS program, and I got an A with a 95%. The only assignment where I didn't score above 90 was Assignment 6. It's a tricky one, so watch out.
Overall, this course is fine, not bad at all. It provides structure and teaches foundational aspects of the software development, including version control, testing, and the software development lifecycle. If you haven't learned these before, you'll find the course very useful. However, if you've taken similar courses or have been a professional developer, you might find it too easy and potentially disappointing.
The course is graded based on 6 different assignments, 1 group project, and 1 individual project. The first five assignments are very easy and straightforward, if you have any Java and Git experience, you can probably complete each one within 1 or 2 hours. To be honest, I almost forgot I was taking the course during this time because the assignments were so easy.
After the first five assignments, we started the group project. In this course, the TAs randomly select your teammates, which I think no other course does. This can lead to very different experiences depending on your group. I've read some horror stories here and on Reddit, so I was a bit nervous. However, I had a great team. Everyone was great, punctual, and professional. We almost got 100% on our group project grade, so my experience was excellent. The group project itself wasn’t hard, but it was busy because of the group work. It required some time for meetings, and there was also peer pressure to perform well.
Then there's Assignment 6, which like everyone said has the biggest potential to lower your grade. I believe the average score for this assignment in the previous semester was in the 60s, and for us, it was in the 70s. In comparison, the average score for almost every other assignment (including group projects and individual project) in the class is above 90%. So, there's a significant drop. I wouldn’t say it’s difficult, but it is very tricky, and you need to answer questions in great detail. The TAs will only give you half credit if your explanations aren't clear, which happened to me. This is the only assignment where I didnt scored above 90%, for all the other assignments, I scored 95% and above.
As for the individual assignment, I found it to be alright. It basically requires you to write code using TDD. So if you haven't worked with TDD before, this could be a good learning opportunity.
So in the end, i'd say if you're unfamiliar with Git, testing, Java, or OOP, you might actually struggle with this course, but learning a lot. On the other hand, if you have experience working as a professional software developer, you'll likely find the course too easy. So I think this course is ideal for someone who knows just Java and OOP but has no experience with version control, testing, or working in a team. If that describes you, you'll find this course very useful.
However, personally, I think this course might be the easiest one in the OMSCS program for me. It feels like a second-semester freshman course that's been rebranded as a graduate course. I can't imagine any other course being easier than this. (Don't get me wrong, it's easy, but it's still useful.)
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 33
C/BaLnCv4w7JOQXmBFKvhw==August 3, 2024summer 2024
This course is fairly simple and straightforward. A few comments:
TAs make it seem like everything regarding assignments is secretive. It’s quite strange.
Assignment requirements should be updated — there are several misleading directions throughout the course.
They should open the course up to allow for front loading assignments.
I was surprised how often other students in the course would ask questions that had been clearly answered in class content. It seemed more common in this course than others.
All the projects and assignments were reasonable. Assignment 6 was more straightforward than I thought it would be based on all the rumors/talk about it.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 34
tetCdLOcmhTWCuaat2HjAg==June 22, 2024spring 2024
Video version: https://youtu.be/Jwcl0iHCALU?si=vt6FsPlBPwfbCm3E
SDP is a fun, but very light course. I would only recommend this course to someone with no (or very little) professional software development experience. Most of what you learn in this course is what you'd learn in your first 3-6 months in as a software engineer. Things like version control, IDE usage, testing, the software development lifecycle and Agile methodology and OOP. There are few more advanced topics, like software architecture design patterns and different types of documentation like software design docs, test plans and UML diagrams, and static analysis.
The lectures are engaging, though quite surface-level. We had 6 assignments which ranged from extremely easy to fairly easy. All were done in Java. There was also a group project (building an Android app) and an individual project (command line file parser with flag support). There were no exams.
The group project was the highlight of the course for me. I was paired with two experienced software engineers and learned a lot from them. As a junior engineer at the time, I really enjoyed drafting the different design docs and designing the backend and database as these are normally tasks designated to more senior engineers.
Overall, a good class to take if you have minimal professional software engineering experience and want a light semester or looking to do multiple courses. Otherwise, I'd skip it.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 35
tetCdLOcmhTWCuaat2HjAg==June 22, 2024spring 2024
SDP is a fun, but very light course. I would only recommend this course to someone with no (or very little) professional software development experience. Most of what you learn in this course is what you'd learn in your first 3-6 months in as a software engineer. Things like version control, IDE usage, testing, the software development lifecycle and Agile methodology and OOP. There are few more advanced topics, like software architecture design patterns and different types of documentation like software design docs, test plans and UML diagrams, and static analysis.
The lectures are engaging, though quite surface-level. We had 6 assignments which ranged from extremely easy to fairly easy. All were done in Java. There was also a group project (building an Android app) and an individual project (command line file parser with flag support). There were no exams.
The group project was the highlight of the course for me. I was paired with two experienced software engineers and learned a lot from them. As a junior engineer at the time, I really enjoyed drafting the different design docs and designing the backend and database as these are normally tasks designated to more senior engineers.
Overall, a good class to take if you have minimal professional software engineering experience and want a light semester or looking to do multiple courses. Otherwise, I'd skip it.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 36
aPZWRF0jdwiFuFLkIpDaCg==May 26, 2024summer 2023
The course material has nothing that you would not find at the undergraduate level. If you have already studied SDP, don't sign up.
The good news is the instructor was great. The bad news is that the TAs are so-so; they can be very heavy-handed in grading, taking off points indiscriminately for minor stupid reasons. The head TA was especially terrible! He came off as very arrogant, probably overcompensating for his lack of experience. He also has a very thick accent, making him hard to understand.
Finally - all the other reviews are spot-on about assignment 6 - watch out! It is overly weighted in calculating your final grade. I think it is there mainly to lower the class average, weeding out some to make the class seem "academically legit." They also included an extra credit question in that assignment, which, if missed, takes off more points than if you didn't try at all. That was sadistic, in my opinion.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 37
EAxidvDuTCObse5VafgFsg==May 20, 2024spring 2024
This is a good class. The lectures are interesting, and the office hours with the professor and TAs are well run. The assignments are not terribly difficult, and the level of Java needed for the programming can easily be acquired with some extra hours of study. There is one assignment where grading is very harsh (a large part has no partial credit) but the rest are OK. There is a team project which is challenging, and the TAs pick your teammates, so there is a bit of luck required there. One downside it is seems that for the non-autograder assignments, grades are slow to be returned. Overall, I recommend this class.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 13 hours / week

Review 38
TNOcHSFZ4+q7Q1jCzay4Kg==May 11, 2024spring 2024
If you are a software engineer who has used github at any point, the first 5 assignments are super easy and will not take long. The group project is most of the grade (it takes about a month with deliverables to do every week) so as long as your team does the necessary work to meet the requirements it shouldn't be that bad. The individual project also isn't that bad if you have software engineering experience.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 39
qATGWtZ1g4E/4np6V1uifg==May 9, 2024spring 2024
If you've ever used git/GitHub and developed any non-trivial piece of software, you should just skip this class. The content is very basic and high level and the assignments are more tedious than they are difficult. If you're just burnt out and want an easy A class that grades you exclusively on assignments, this is a good option, but I would recommend saving one of your 10 classes for something better.
It's worth mentioning that the TA team is outstanding. Prompt answers and very helpful.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 4 hours / week

Review 40
bIsKRxwXeCTRk8vgl/An2A==May 2, 2024spring 2023
Taken Spring 24. Non-CS background.
If you are of sound mind, took any intro to programming course, and have at least one competent groupmate, it is incredibly difficult to not get at least a 95 in the course. Assignments range from copying a YouTube tutorial to make a basic Android app to writing 5 unit tests. It really is hard to screw up.
Assignment 6, the assignment some reviews are complaining about, asks us to follow if/else tree branches. I don't know how they are tanking that assignment, but if you have done reasonably well in any other OMSCS class, I assure you that you'll be fine.
The only possible hurdle you will face in this class are groupmates who are AFK or don't know how to code. However, the group project is easy enough that it can be done with just two people working ~3-5 hours per week.
If you need an easy class or just want to coast for a semester, this is the one to take.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 41
jiSBPxsSUJFAZWj0X6rCyQ==May 2, 2024spring 2023
SDP Spring 2024
Background: Machine Learning Engineer with little to no experience in development or Java. I took this course with ML.
What most reviews fail to clarify is that even though this is an easy course, it is really easy to get a B (even a C). It is okay to not devote a lot of time to this course, but you cannot afford to lose a lot of marks because median for most assignments is 100 (!!). It was 97 for Group Project, and 91 for Individual Project. A6 will probably decide your grade (median 75).
My practical 2c:
Double check your submissions: Wrong names or locations of files during submission are penalized. In some cases, they perform sanity checks using autograder but not always.
Assignment 6 is essentially a puzzle. If you reach the correct answer, you will know. If you have doubts about your submission, you are very likely missing something.
Watch Ed videos based on the assigned schedule (simply clicking the videos works).
For Group Project, make sure all the docs are present and are well done.
SDP with ML? In the current setup, SDP is a good blend with ML since there are no clashes. ML P1 clashes with an initial SDP assignment which is super-easy, P2, P3 were due mid-week. P4 clashes with SDP Individual project which was gradescope based, and once I got a 100, I could switch my focus to ML completely.
Pros
One of the few courses where the original course creator / professor is still active and TAs are actually just TAs.
Inspite of being a tricky course, it is well designed for someone with no background. Pairing with a harder course is possible since SDP does not require you to put in a lot of hours.
The assigments descriptions are really well written with a lot of emphasis on what is expected.
I feel great that with zero background, I could work on an Android app, learn about software testing, develop a Java application. All this while putting in >30 hours/week for ML consistenty.
Cons
Group Project pairing is random and you might end up doing a great chunk of the assigned work.
A6 felt like a 'all or nothing' highschool puzzle which was really irritating. I felt really bad seeing posts from other classmates who lost a lot of marks.
Similar to A6, IP deliverable 1 also felt like a puzzle with a lot of emphasis on finding hidden scenarios without feedback.
The workload and weightage of assignments is not evenly distributed.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 9 hours / week

Review 42
ntdlxje+NLk4rRE2nVpOiQ==April 16, 2024spring 2023
Worst course of all time. Total waste of energy and time to almost send myself to a psychologist therapy session every week. There's a stupid Assignment 6 that consists of 15% of your grade and the average is 68% (I got 43%), which got me fighting for my life to get a B for the last few weeks. The material learned is totally irrelevant to my professional career. Also doesn't help when this course is forcing to use Java which is probably the worst language ever created.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 4 / 5Workload: 25 hours / week

Review 43
f5LbeClAhhqYmXvJMHwplw==March 4, 2024spring 2023
Amazing course if you are already a software engineer
Super easy A
No exams or quizzes
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 1 hours / week

Review 44
FLEs0wB7jB5Q0h2c2vuOvg==January 4, 2024fall 2023
I learned some great things, and there are some great things about this course, but in the end...
I had an A (94.5%) in this course up until the last couple weeks, when they graded A6 (got 20/100, which is completely messed up).
*NOTE: Staff will not give rubric, which means there are very critical things, like certain aspects of an assignment being pass or fail...needing to pass every single test, and they will not tell you (this is flat out bad practice, IMO).
*Then, I was doing great on my final individual proj, but then right in the very end, when I still had a chance to get at least a B (80%), there was a part (1 of 4 parts) where they gave me a 10/100. I couldn't even believe it. So, I ended up with a 77, and now I'm switching to another program. Hopefully, it doesn't happen to anyone else.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 4 / 5Workload: 20 hours / week

Review 45
m2i/FCBPqKPCqMmtpsbukw==December 17, 2023fall 2023
The class is very easy at least for me as someone who has a BS in CS and works FT as a SWE. I would have to say that only the topic on Coverages were something new to me, because they introduced Conditional coverages and Branch coverages which I was not aware previously. The group project is the only uncertainty in the class, but since I have some experience, I had the mindset of not minding to do the full-stack whole project myself. However, the teammates that were assigned to me were relatively responsible. They took care every single bit of their responsibility upon agreeing the Delivery 2. The Individual Project is a practice of test-driven development which was novel to me since my company is a startup, once we receive the requirements, we just start coding.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 46
/2jJAcZBuqH9btxPGuGDvg==December 11, 2023fall 2023
Pros
The course syllabus is good and you will learn decent amount if you are an undergrad and going straight to masters.
You will have projects that will demonstrate how a software team works.
Cons
If you have an industry experience in software then its useless since most the things are now available to read on the internet like UML diagrams, ways to test the code, scrum, agile, waterfall and test-driven development.
The assignments are lame and in Android which makes it senseless since software development paradigms are difficult to learn using Android. You are left to play with Android Studio that too a specific version that the Gradescope uses to assess else you are doomed to fail even though your code is right.
The worst part is that the assignments are released every week. So you can't work ahead. The TAs give a stupid reason for this that everyone must learn together and ask questions and stay connected. This is exactly not OMSCS. OMSCS is supposed to be decentralized and asynchronous.
TAs are lazy. For one assignment Gradescope gave me same string for expected and actual output where I couldn't understand what's the issue. The TAs responded that is how gradescope works and we can't help you.
You lose marks if you have bad teammates. My team was not that great and I did most of the work and eventually lost marks as some features that were delegated were missing from the final application.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 47
3DAMyikTEhmL6xCnN9OIKw==December 11, 2023fall 2023
I signed up for this course with almost zero Java experience (and some proficient Python knowledge). Therefore, I expected to struggle with some of the concepts in the course (especially for anything regarding database expertise on the group project).
Assignments 1-6 were very doable for a person with little to no Java experience. Most of the prior reviews highlight Assignment 6 as being tricky and weighted at 15%-18% of the total grade in the class, but I thought that was fair giving how Assignment 6 required something more beyond rote coding. If you can read directions and perform simple mathematical operations to double-check your own math, then Assignment 6 will only help to bolster your grade (100% is very achievable for all assignments).
The Group Project is where I would recommend you put a lot of effort into being a good teammate and making all the documentation as thorough as possible. Even if your final application is somewhat error-prone, your Group Project grade can still be high/strong as long as your documentation deliverables are high-quality documents. This is where it helps if you have people who are good at writing as well as coding in your arena.
The Individual Project is less about Java skills and more about...battling the antiquated tool of TSL Generator and then trying to beat hidden Gradescope test cases. I would recommend not putting in excessive hours into beating every single test case unless you have the time and energy to do so - the reward is not that large for getting all test cases beat.
The TAs were very responsive on Ed Discussion. Many of the students just plain do not read instructions or just ask the same questions again and again on Ed Discussion. Sometimes I wish there were negative points awarded to people for being so sloppy in how they handled assignment materials before posting public questions to Ed Discussion that revealed their lack of thoroughness in the course.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 18 hours / week

Review 48
9fCBAbPexj2fyIKTPG7vNQ==August 19, 2023spring 2023
This is not a very useful course to further level up the programming skills, but is perfect to fulfill the requirement of graduation for Specialization in Interactive Intelligence, instead of taking the GA that is hard and basically impossible to get enrolled before the final semester.
There are 6 individual assignments, a group project, and an individual project. The difficulties is mostly on the individual project, and if your teammates are all bad in the group project. As other students have commented, the assignment 6 is worth 15%. It is not hard (actually pretty easy from my perspective) but just need to be extra careful because it worths too much in the grading.
You can spend very little time in this course to get an A, or try to study as much as you can. What can I complain for such a friendly course?
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 49
oDx9ZXI+8eN8IeJQIIYqzw==August 8, 2023summer 2023
If you are a software engineer, imagine having to follow the waterfall model forcefully and then be grilled by everyone over timelines. This course is no different.
It's a frustrating class, mainly because of the obscure grading, unclear specifications and below average content for a masters class.
As explained in other reviews of the class, the grades are very unpredictable and you only get to know on the last day of the semester on how you did. I got an A, but it could have very easily been a B, no thanks to Assignment 6 which has an unacceptable 15% weight. There was even a petition during the class supported by over 100 students to relook at the weightage.
In the end, I'm just glad that it got over and since I'm in the II spec, made sense to choose it over GA but again I would actually consider taking GA after the experience here.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 50
UfLZ7HeMFhLz8He29deVEQ==August 7, 2023summer 2023
This is my 7th course in the program, and by far my least favorite. If you read no further, know this: if you already have a job in software development, this is not a useful class. It hits all the basics, and is arguably more of an undergrad level course. I had a course in my CS bachelors at a large state school that was almost the exact same content.
Problems I had with the course included:
A wild imbalance of work between weeks, with no ability to work ahead. The first half of the course has assignments that will take you 30-60 minutes. The second half suddenly throws a lot of more complex work at you, including doubling up the most difficult assignment deadline with the group project deadline. The individual "project" at the end only really gives 1 weekend to work on each part, unlike the rest of the assignments in which you always have 2 weekends to do work.
A wild imbalance of grade weighting. Many have spoken here about how 15% of your grade comes down to assignment 6. It is the most difficult assignment, but I would not call it a brain teaser. It's a bit more like writing geometry proofs...except no one taught you how to write them. It takes a lot of careful thinking, despite it being a low volume of actual coding/writing. It's not impossible, but it doesn't feel reflective of the assignment weight, as the concepts are based in very specific theories around testing. It feels like it came from a different course.
Despite being called "projects", the group and individual projects little little to no room for your own creativity or interests. You complete work exactly as described in a detailed specification. If you have experience making Android apps or coding in Java, it is pretty uninteresting (in my opinion). In the case of doing the group project, I felt like I was doing a job in which I was not getting paid to create a product that will never ship. It felt like a waste of time.
Assignment specifications are written up in google docs. Many of them are 5-10 pages long. TAs will change or add things while the assignment is open, despite the fact that you may have already turned in and stopped working for the week. Because it's a google doc, it can be unclear when changes were made, or even if changes were made. You are still responsible for following the specifications at the end.
Most of the assignments are manually graded. You don't have a good idea of how you are doing pretty much until the end of the course. The assignments with any meaningful weight don't come with any evaluation criteria or rubric. We are simply told to do a "suitable" or "sufficient" job at the task. The TAs will then comb through and nitpick solutions. I never experienced grading that felt unfair, but it leaves one with a feeling of disempowerment. How can we succeed without a clear definition of success?
I got a faint whim of disdain towards students at times in assignment specifications. The way things are written sometimes feel like staff is...annoyed? by students. On one occasion, there was a threat to deduct points on an assignment for asking a specific question on Ed. Perhaps I read into things too much, but I was ill at ease sometimes.
There are times TAs refuse to answer questions you ask on the forum and ask you to come to office hours instead. This is not accessible for students with busy schedules, families, jobs, in different timezones, etc.
There is a group project. It wasn't a terrible project, I guess, but it inevitably leads to having to adjust your schedule to accommodate others, which can be stressful. Not really the fault of the course, just an inevitable annoyance to be aware of.
Things that seemed okay about the course:
The lectures are well presented, even if only on basic topics
There are regular office hours if you want to have live conversations with staff
The assignments are, at least, pretty detailed and you have a good idea of exactly what to build
This class may be ok in a spring or fall semester in which the schedule is a little more stretched out. Would I call it an "easy" A? Not really. I got an A, but it was actually the first course in which I was not certain I would get an A up until the very end, due to obscure grading criteria and the slow pace of getting grades back. I think many people can end up with a B because of assignment 6--or worse if you don't pull weight in the group project. The content can be extremely easy at times, but more difficult at others. I don't think you can coast. I haven't taken graduate algorithms, but my impression is that this is still less painful than that class, so if you are going for the II specialization, it's still worth taking this course over that one. Otherwise, I'd skip it. You're better off getting a 10 week internship (or just, yknow, a job), where you'd learn twice as much about software dev process AND get paid.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 51
lgSVrZ6cNPkcWP7JsDkMcQ==August 4, 2023summer 2023
Final grade - A (96%)
This class is heavily back loaded, the first couple of assignments are sort of just warmups and are worth a small percentage of your grade which can be a good thing. The group assignment was fun, had to make an android app and found myself carrying the weight of the team in the development front, we had ghost teammate that didn't show up for the first 2 weeks. The Individual project was interesting, didn't have as much fun with TSLGenerator, it is an interesting tool and I can see its uses for TDD.
Pros- good course as a warmup in the summer, good to get your grades up, provided you are honest consistent and disciplined in your efforts.
Cons- The timing for A6 and the group projects final deliverable are weird. They're due on the same day, while the group project takes several weeks to deliver you get only a week for A6 and they're somehow weighted almost equally. I did very well on A6 relative to the class but I don't feel like I learned anything great in that assignment. It feels more like a riddle than a programming assignment.
This class overall seemed pretty medium in difficulty. The caveat is, the beginning is a cake walk while the end of the semester is critical. I found myself spending roughly 2-4 hours a week in the first half while I spent roughly 20 hours in the final 4 few weeks of the semester.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 52
tjSJ27d8fXRmPZ4IYGYuBQ==July 30, 2023summer 2023
While I develop software at my job, it is not in a capacity that requires a robust, structured development process, and I don't do it in a team of many people all working on the same code base at the same time. That is why I chose to take this course, to get a fundamental understanding of git and software development processes in general. For someone like me this course is great. I got exactly what I desired from this class.
If you're someone who develops software in a collaborative team full-time, some aspects of this class will probably be somewhat mundane to you. That being said, learning about the different methods of software development and each method's pros and cons can still be somewhat interesting.
For the summer semester the first 5 weeks were lectures and 5 assignments. This part of the class was pretty easy. You do have to keep up with lectures. These assignments don't take a huge amount of time unless you're completely foreign to Java (Assignment 1-3), or if you've never created a basic app with buttons, textboxes, etc. (Assignment 4 is a basic android app). I had some experience in both, but not much, and I didn't struggle much with it. Some googling solved all of my problems.
Weeks 6-8 were a group project where your team creates an android app and a lot of documentation for the app. Assignment 6 was also due on week 8. All of this is done while keeping up with lectures. For the group project teams were 3-4 people. My team had 4 and then 1 member dropped the class. The app and the documentation does take quite a bit of time. These 3 weeks were the most busy and my team was up late every sunday night. It didn't help that in week 8 both the finalized group project and Assignment 6 were due at the same time. My team was pretty good though. All 3 people pulled their weight for the most part and we barely missed getting a 100%. I highly recommend making a spreadsheet of tasks that need to be completed and have each person on the team put their name to the tasks they're going to complete. That really mitigates two people working on the same thing for any amount of time. Communication is key!
Weeks 9-11 were an individual project. Again, that is completed while keeping up with lectures. The individual project did take some time but not as much as the group project. I thought the individual project was actually fairly interesting. You're given the specification of a program. Part 1 is creating test cases for that program using a text file with parameters and then running an executable that turns that into a list of test cases. Part 2 is implementing those test cases. Gradescope compares your test cases to the test cases that you're expected to cover. This can be frustrating because you don't know what all of cases you're supposed to cover are. You're supposed to come up with all of them based on the program specifications, but you end up adding test cases or changing your test cases and resubmitting and seeing what Gradescope says. If you're methodical about it you can eventually figure it out. Part 3 is implementing the program that your test cases were testing. Up until this part the 100% correct program has always been in the black box that is gradescope. Now you're creating that program and all of your test cases have to pass against it, as well as additional gradescope test cases that will ensure your implementation is correct.
Overall the course was not very difficult in my opinion. Weeks 1-5 were pretty easy. Weeks 6-8 were quite time consuming. Week 8 was the worst with the final group project due and Assignment 6. That was not fun. Weeks 9-11 was a little harder and more time consuming than weeks 1-5, but still fairly easy. I recommend this class.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 53
aPUo+fai3Uca5eV1JXAiNw==May 12, 2023spring 2023
I really didn't want to believe the reviews about how this class is useless if you already work in the field but they were painfully true. This class sucked, I learned literally nothing the whole semester. This class is literally undergrad level... My group project team wasn't the greatest either, when it came time to code I did most of the project but your experience may vary. The other projects were pretty lame and I didn't learn much, if anything, from them either. Assignment 6 was brutal too, if you miss tiny parts it tanks your grade. The lectures are pretty well done but you can tell how old they are. Although material doesn't change, a refresh would show that they actually put some more effort into the class. I took a Software Engineering class in undergrad and it covered basically all the same material. Maybe if you don't work in Tech this class would be helpful otherwise it's an easy enough A. Very disappointing for a 'grad' level class.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 54
5IdhvBTiuDJvQbt8XskqUg==May 10, 2023spring 2023
While 8hr/week is an average, there will be some weeks that will be a bit more demanding. Beware of the A6 (white box testing as it can significantly affect your grade. There are no exams to worry about!
The lectures are fun and easy to understand, and the professor & TA are helpful. This might be easy class, but it cannot be front loaded; you need to stick to the schedule and there is something to turn in every week. Clubbing this with a demanding course will not be a great idea.
For an in-depth review, checkout my blog!
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 55
vFWTixFU0s3VpLG1+NlauA==May 9, 2023fall 2022
The lectures seem a little stale. The assignments aren't too difficult. If you already know Git/GitHub, it can feel remedial at first. The TAs are great. The group project was in the middle of the semester, so that made it less of a paint at the end. It was Android-based, and that was something I wasn't expecting to learn. The later assignments and individual project have a lot of JUnit testing, but there is extra credit, and Gradescope helps. I really enjoyed the course.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 56
+rlO22mv1WfHSZ5PuZEMhQ==May 6, 2023spring 2023
This is my 7th course in the program, and it’s been one of the easiest A’s I’ve gotten. That being said, it’s a valuable course if you don’t have professional software dev experience. And even if you do, you might pick up a few things (although you’ll probably be bored).
Language - Java
Pros
Easy
Lectures are quick
No exams
Cons
Group project (at the mercy of how good your group is, and you don’t select your teammates)
Assignment 6 is weighted WAY too high, and it’s a terribly ineffective assignment. It’s basically solving their testing riddles, and if you don’t get it exactly right, you can easily get a terrible grade on that one assignment and get a B in the course.
Assignment documentation is frustrating and unnecessarily confusing with how they use placeholders for file path names
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 9 hours / week

Review 57
NInd7B4im9eh5xMz8a7sTg==April 30, 2023spring 2023
The course is middle-of-the-road when compared to other OMS courses. It is good if you need a filler course just to check off a requirement, or if you are interested in getting started building android apps. Otherwise you will not gain much at all.
In short, there are plenty of better rated courses you should consider taking.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 58
9MTtlmu+UW7sUYyHSx8PkA==April 27, 2023spring 2023
Overall good course, pretty easy. A6 was the only tricky part because they didn´t teach you in the lectures on how to solve it.
The TA's were very helpful in Ed.
The material is very useful for people with no CS background like me (BBusiness Admin and Msc Finance). I would definetly recommend it for those people. For people with CS background, it could be a easy semester.
The group project is pretty easy but alot of work due to the documents you have to write. I had a very good group so it was easy.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 59
NiCWy1YyJdrCbxAgCxGWsQ==April 23, 2023spring 2023
I would skip this course. Like other students said, A6 is a trick assignment and after that I was so bummed that I submitted one portion of individual project late. Till then my grade was 100/100 and now I am afraid , I will end up with a B. I believe A6 was a trick assignment on purpose.
As for learning. I enjoyed building the android app in group project and a4. I took 2 subjects and this was essentially the easier one with other being more difficult and core subject. This course took away a lot of time from my main course and it was annoying and then disheartening to trip over a trick assignment and end up with a B. Might as well wait for and do graduate algorithms. Moreover to the end the TAs were unhelpful adding to annoying experience.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 60
VtyRcZyoXyFfbMYeeTvd/A==April 16, 2023spring 2023
I was skeptical of taking this class after reading a lot of bad reviews. I'm guessing these reviews come from people already in the software industry (or industry adjacent), or from people that aren't familiar with coding/software development at all. While the course material itself is pretty uninspiring (I mean how exciting can you make software development process really?), the Professor and TAs have been really responsive and excited about the material. We have easy access to them as resources, and they all seem knowledgeable and willing to help (to a certain extent obviously).
What I really like about this course are the assignments. Yeah there are a few that I found frustrating and overly fussy about the details but I can definitely see and appreciate the rationale behind them. While not a career coder and after not having worked with Java for years, I have seen my fair share of courses and projects that involved coding. The assignments in this course were pretty rewarding to get right. Some were actually pretty fun. None of them were so challenging that I began the assignment with absolutely no idea what to do (which has not been the case in other courses).
One of the most useful aspects of this course for non-software professionals is the extensive use of Github for code management. While seemingly tedious and mysterious at first, once we got to intensively use it assignment after assignment, I find myself very comfortable at the end of the semester utilizing it in an efficient and meaningful way to manage version control.
For me this course was a confidence-booster in the coding arena after getting hammered in other more intensive courses. It wasn't so difficult that I wanted to pull my hair out at 4AM, hours before an assignment is due.
Speaking of assignments, there is one due each and every week. This can become a time-management problem if you find yourself with a particularly busy week (work, sick kids, vacation, etc.). So plan ahead. Some weeks the assignments aren't going to take a proficient coder more than a few hours, others may take more since not all involve coding (producing documents, doing other non-coding problems).
Overall I really liked this course and found most of the assignments fun and rewarding.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 61
kzM7B8ZcorRVWNb31bMkCg==March 20, 2023spring 2023
Currently taking this course, and it's shocking how bad it is. The course is composed of a handful of assignments, and many many tedious lecture videos that move at a snail's pace.
The group project isn't that bad, even if your group doesn't do anything, you can easily do the project on your own - provided you have Android experience. If you don't have Android experience, you will end up spending a lot of time on this course self-learning.
The part of this course that's bad for me is how unnecessarily tedious it is, and the fact that the "rigor" of this course comes from doing meaningless assignments that don't actually teach you anything. Even though this course is a requirement in the Computing Systems specialization, I can't recommend doing it for anything other than degree completion.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 1 hours / week

Review 62
7RqDSmSa3+waoLwCQz1r1Q==March 20, 2023spring 2023
Just one tip to add that I wish I had known. When you fill out the form that informs the instructors what groups to put you in, make sure to drastically understate your coding ability so you are not paired with weaker students who free ride (another review mentions this).
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 4 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 63
mBTL+jQZw3GE87qQjwxR2Q==January 3, 2023fall 2022
This has to be one of the most well run course in this program. The content of the assignments aren't that involved but they are crafted with care. Professor Orso and the TAs have done a fantastic job. The lectures do touch upon some important topics that are overlooked.
If you're looking to take the course, go for it. It's a relatively easy course that is also not just a filler course.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 64
Dahkq1w6VLVYACKuKJ+Lug==December 3, 2022fall 2022
Without any java experience and not CS background, this course can get challenging at times. I had to spend lot of time to understand what the Individual Project (last 5 weeks of the course) was asking for, but once that is clear things were not too bad. The best part of this course which I liked in particular was the group project where I learned quite a lot on know-hows of git collaboration to build something together to get an essence of Agile development. There is a 15% load to Assignment6 which looks easy but was fairly tough, I got only 52/100 and score in this single assignment determines who gets A and B. I do have one thing to complain about this course is lack of any sort of direction when stuck in determining the test cases for individual project. It is always a standard answer. At the end students never come to know the tricks to get better test coverage. I understand why they cannot share all that but this thing hurts learning a lot and students. I gave up after trying a number of times just because I had no idea on where to spend my time on.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 14 hours / week

Review 65
L+EedEGvSexpxt1rZlb7+g==November 27, 2022fall 2022
Negatives:
very high variation in workload based on the week, some weeks are brutal
you cannot front-load work, as assignments are released weekly; this was really unfortunate
group project is stressful and rushed; grading can be harsh if unlucky
one assignment is worth 15% of your grade, but can end up really hurting you grade
TAs can be quite unhelpful and are paranoid of information being shared on Ed, that would otherwise be helpful. The information sharing environment is the complete opposite of KBAI or HCI. One TA in particular really ground my gears with their unhelpful responses...
assignment requirements are horribly written, vague, and inaccurate. You need to read Ed posts to correct and clarify blatantly wrong info in the requirements
Positives:
you will have some super chill weeks
course content is relatively straightforward
learning git is extremely helpful, but should have been more in-depth
you are guaranteed to get a B, but not an A; an A is achievable if you don't get screwed over by A6 or your group
In Depth Review
This class is not quite as easy as people make it out to be, especially for those who are not strong in Java or android development. There seems to be a lot of experienced android/java developers exaggerating the lack of effort needed for this class.
For background, I have my BS in CS, and I consider myself an experienced coder, albeit I primarily code in just Python. There are weeks when you do barely any work, and other weeks you are drowning. Here's a breakdown of how the semester went for me.
A1 - A3: minimal work, as things are straightforward. shouldn't be more than 4 hours a week if you watch the lecture content and read Ed posts for tips.
A4: You need to code a real, but very simple android app. I personally find android development an awful, awful experience. This assignment isn't terrible, but the pain comes from setting up android studio / IntelliJ, and just slogging through the buggy/slow parts of android studio and relearning Java if you're not familiar with it. 2 hours if you're comfortable with android, upwards of 10 hours if inexperienced.
A5: requirements are light, but the sheer ambiguity of it all will leave you spending more time than you might think. could spend 1 hour, could spend 5+. This is also only worth a whopping 2% of your grade, so don't pull your hair out.
Group Project Weeks 1 and 2: the first two weeks aren't too crazy, just prepping documents and planning your application. Should be about 5 hours of work max, each week.
Group Project Weeks 3 and 4: the course is poorly planned here, and expects 4-5 students of varying skill-levels to code a full-on android application. This is a hot mess and very stressful, as you're relying on 3-4 other people to somehow write code that will all work together in the span of 2 weeks. This was the most intense and stressful part of the semester, and my group was a bunch of ANGELS who were skilled, nice, and prompt. I can't imagine how bad this would be with a bad group.
A6: a horrible, horrible assignment worth 15% of your grade, and many people get a grade ranging from 40-70 because of trick questions. I knew ahead of time the assignment was full of trick questions and tried my best, but still landed at a 64. If you want an A, be prepared to do well on everything else so you have leeway on the assignment. I spent about 8 hours on this assignment.
Individual Project D1: another painful part of the semester where you have to learn how to use a TSL generator, which entails learning the syntax behind laying down constraints to generate a concise set of test cases to test an application. This was not fun at all, because TSL generator syntax is hard to pin down to do exactly what you want it to do. the lecture provides a decent example, however. Then you need to write up 50-90 test cases in Java. This was 12+ hours of work.
Individual Project D2: Assuming you wrote good test cases in D1, and your test cases from TSL had decent coverage, this week is really light. I spent about 2 hours this week.
Individual Project D3: Here you just need to code basic Java programming (no android development, thank god). Depending on your Java comfortability, this could be 3 hours, could be 10+. I spent about 6 hours, a lot of which I continued to relearn java.
Individual Project D4: another quick week, you just refactor your code from D3. I spent about 3 hours. Others reported 1-2 hours.
Grading: grading was fair and returned reasonably promptly... until the group project, which took about a month for them to give back, leaving you blind in where you stand academically. A6 also took about a month to get back, which sucked more with a stingingly low grade. D2, D3, and D4 all give autograder scores immediately, thankfully. Additionally, grading of the project really seemed to be based on luck. My group got a 95, but other groups with seemingly fine implementations got 60-80 range. My advice is to put together really good documents, or else they will slash points hard.
Overall, this class started pleasant, had an awful middle stretch, but ended with a soft landing in the last 3 weeks. Poor assignment requirements, strict/rude TAs, and the inability to front-load work make this class unenjoyable.
In comparison to other classes, this is pretty easy and light, but by no means is it a complete walk in the park.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 4 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 66
5uvUA8ke/dT4QCNLLwMAjg==November 18, 2022fall 2022
I took this class as a required / easier class. I already had a lot of Java and unit testing experience, so this class was review for me. I could see it being useful for those new to software development, but for me I was very bored. Definitely easiest course I've taken by far.
The last couple assignments are definitely harder (e.g. Assignment 6 and Individual Assignment), so just be careful when you get to that point and make sure to dedicate time. Even then I don't think I spent more than 3 hours in any given week.
I kind of wish I took a more useful course, but it was a nice change of pace from other courses I've taken. The professor and TA staff are awesome, and anyone new to software development or even this program would benefit from this class.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 2 hours / week

Review 67
9TewtKD3Y6cqU8MPmXROlA==October 13, 2022fall 2022
If you've never done software development before professionally, this course is a pretty good starter. For anyone who has done an internship or more, don't expect to learn anything new or too in depth.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 68
CBgdM14WpvrWTNYP/aNXTg==August 18, 2022summer 2022
Overall a great course. Did not have prior software work experience, and overall felt like a satisfying course to finish in terms of knowledge gained.
In terms of pre-requisites for the course, Java knowledge is absolutely necessary. I did not have prior Java knowledge, but learnt it during the break. The key concepts of classes, packages, functions, error handling is required for the course.
The professor and TAs were very responsive, and spent time to make sure the students learnt.
In terms of assignments, many students had problems with Assignment 6 (although it was fine for myself). If you learn the concepts well, and make sure you are confident of what they are asking, it is not that difficult.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 15 hours / week

Review 69
jmISiTBGzj9ZV5pQjHLU1w==August 14, 2022spring 2022
I am not from software engineering background. I find the course useful.
The group project ends up fine for us. Got a great team (mostly..). Everyone has a right expectation of each other given the time we all have outside of work.
Not a difficult course, but has a lot of good material for those who like to dive deeper..
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 70
ls+DUQ8+LeslamzFD0KwEw==August 12, 2022summer 2022
I was not happy with this course. I took this course as a filler to finish my degree program, 9th class in OMSCS. I've been writing code and working various forms of SDP for 24 years now. So this should have been easy, but too much busy work in the Group project and Individual project and an annoyingly cleaver Assignment 6 really made me walk away with the feeling of disappointment.
The group project hosted an overly annoying set of busy work with design docs, and status deliverables. I fell into the trap of doing all the coding work since I was the most experienced on the team and left all the docs to the lesser experienced members who in-turn didn't really do a good job and the last day was a scramble to bring the docs up to par. But, since being a one-man show on the code, I had missed a few "requirements" and my teammates didn't have the wherewithal to notice or call out the missing requirements, we got an 84 overall. But after grades were released, a vague, overly word-smithed message was broadcasted about a mistake in grading and our grade shot up to 94.
Assignment 6 was what really made me angry, first off, it had a due date exactly the same instant that the Group project was due. Second, the instructor and TA's get together ever semester and dream up this insane set of trick questions about code coverage and whitebox testing and treat it as a great learning experience. I got a 70 on that stupid assignment because my guard was down and I didn't realize this class engaged in such trick question tactics. On top of that, I just completed CS6340, software analysis, prior to this. CS6340 is a very well run, incredible class that teaches blackbox/whitebox testing properly. This class CS6300 has no business diving into whitebox testing the way it did, I think the only reason they do is so the TAs and professor can claim some one up on the students delivering a trick question assignment and they can unveil the actual solution in a grand office hours for all to see how cleaver and tricky they were.
I think there are many more choices that could have been used as the subject of Assignment 6, oh I don't know, maybe focus on CI/CD pipelines for example. Just bad course material selection and most is not relevant in the real world.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 71
eYQ0OzEEhmmu+oS6RpHb4A==August 8, 2022summer 2022
About as easy a course in this program as you'll find. The lectures are ok but mostly skippable if you've done a year or so of professional coding -- except the lectures on code coverage, which was interesting but short. The assignments are easy. This is an easy A.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 72
Georgia Tech StudentApril 25, 2022spring 2022
This was my 2nd course in the OMSCS program (first was CN). Coming from a non-CS background, I was excited to take this course as I thought it would provide some very functional learning outcomes.
I certainly did learn some important things from this course, but probably not as much as I expected. This course really honed my Git skills, as well as strengthened my Java coding, but I didn't feel like I took a wealth of new knowledge away from this course.
Pros -
Professor Orso is fantastic, his lectures are enjoyable to watch, and he's quite active on the message board and with office hours. TAs all pretty good too, response times were very quick.
I really enjoyed the individual assignments, as I thought they were well documented and easy to understand what the objectives were. Learned quite a bit from these.
My group was very active for the group project (albeit a little last minute on some things). We got a solid A on the project.
Cons -
While the lectures were enjoyable to watch, I don't feel like I retained the knowledge that well since we aren't tested directly on the material. Sure, some of the lectures were pretty key as a demo for some of the assignments, but I felt like you could really skip most of them and just get the assignments and projects done to coast on by.
The group and individual projects were just kind of blah. There really wasn't an excitement to working on the applications needed to be developed.
Overall, I am still glad I took the course, I just don't think it quite lived up to my expectations.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 73
Georgia Tech StudentApril 24, 2022spring 2022
Overall a great class. This is a must if you do not have a standard CS background. You will learn very useful skills that are applicable in the future. In my case, I would say that is NOT an easy A, but if you put in the work you will get a good grade, which is very fair. Highly recommended at the beginning of the program or if you do not have a CS background.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 74
Georgia Tech StudentApril 21, 2022spring 2022
This was the 2nd course I took in this program. First I just want to say that I do not have a CS background but am proficient in Python and Javascript and taught myself some basic Java before starting the class. If you have a similar background, you will definitely be using google a lot and these project may take you slightly longer to complete compared to others. This was the case for me, but still managed to get an A in this course pretty easily. I would recommend this to anyone starting this program or looking for an easy course to end the program with.
Overall I learned a lot in this course and found the subject very interesting. I was really happy to learn how to use Git in collaboration with teammates which is a useful skill. I also liked that there are no tests or graded quizzes and MOST the lectures were pretty helpful. Orso does a good job of presenting lectures so they are actually bearable to watch.
Most students complain about the group project and unfair grading. My experience was pretty positive and I felt that any points lost were fair and couldn't be argued. Based on previous feedback I was pretty nervous about Assignment 6 but surprisingly found it to be one of the easier projects. This assignment didn't involve any coding, but did require you to watch the lectures and read the questions carefully and apply some logic. Despite my experience many people seemed to lose a lot of points on this.
The individual project was a bit more challenging and the first Deliverable was the most tedious part. After that it was not so bad. Most of the Individual Project is submitted in the autograder so it was nice to see the feedback and scores for the assignments.
Complaints: I think the most common complaint is about the weighting. Assignment 6 was 15% of the grade and this is where many people lost points. I think it would be a good idea to spread the percentage out over all assignments more so one assignment doesn't have such a huge impact on the score.
Final thoughts:
If you are looking for an easy A or have no CS background and want to improve your Git and Java skills, take this class!
If you are already a software engineer or have a solid CS background and you want to actually learn/challenge yourself, this may be a waste of your time.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 75
Georgia Tech StudentApril 4, 2022spring 2022
The most thing I hate about this course is Orso's headphones. Every time he attended the office hour, his voice sounded muffled, and far away. His headphone quality is really low making the every office hour a total disaster.
About the course, the content is too high level, and lack of detailed practical materials. The group project didn't allow us to choose group members. Instead, they chose crapy members for us. The individual project contains full of boring repetitive assignment like creating 50-90 test cases.
If you are a software professional, you will find this course too easy, too boring and nothing to learn.
If you are a newbie, you will find this course too vague, too out of scope, and nothing to learn
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 76
Georgia Tech StudentApril 1, 2022spring 2022
The lectures in the class are good and engaging. Prof Orso is creative with different content delivery methods, like interviewing experts in the field and being animated. Some of the interviews had audio quality issues and were not filmed with professional quality.
I disliked the course overall because it's a lot of busy work for those who have experience. I wanted to learn more about design patterns and UML, and apply them in code, but those subjects were briefly covered. The group project was unpleasant because they pair strong students with weaker students, practically inviting free riding. For the final individual project, the project is as dull as possible, and you have to implement 50-90 unit tests! It is an easier course, but there's little educational take away.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 77
Georgia Tech StudentMarch 27, 2022spring 2022
Taking this course is a waste of time unless you have 0 professional coding experience and haven't covered any of these topics in previous courses.
Otherwise the only value of taking this course is to get any easy A for like 5 hours of work a week at the cost of not learning anything and doing boring / repetitive work (final project is actually a decent amount of work because there's so much tedious repetition in it - e.g.: write 50+ unit tests testing slightly different permutations of the same thing)
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 78
Georgia Tech StudentJanuary 27, 2022fall 2021
As someone who's been programming for years, including some time doing Android development, this was a pretty easy class, but I imagine not so much for folks without a lot of experience in programming. Still, I enjoyed it immensely as it was a good refresher of best practices as well as some theory that I'd never been exposed to for things I'd been doing for a while.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 79
Georgia Tech StudentJanuary 2, 2022fall 2021
Easiest course I've attended so far and yet the first course in which I was graded with a B. To set a benchmark, I've attended much more challenging courses like AI, KBAI, HCI, IHI and have had straight A's.
The manually graded assignments which include White box testing (A6) and Group project is a complete joke when it comes to grading and mind it these assignments come towards the latter part of your semester and are very very badly graded by the TAs, while the weightage given to these assignments are also very high.
Points are taken away even if you have done all the work and when you challenge the grade, the TAs do their best to find arbitrary faults to justify.
As an example, my group project was graded 50/100 saying outright that the app doesn't work and that the documentations were missing. Then me and my team showed proof of the working app and that the documentations were present. After multiple regrades and back and forth with the TAs it was regraded to 76/100 and still the grade did not justify the efforts we put in.
I ended up with a final score of 89 and received my first B for the easiest course that I've taken in OMSCS. This course does not grade you for your work on the manually graded projects and relies on the mood of your TA evaluating. Worse experience!!!!
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 80
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 25, 2021fall 2021
As someone with NO software development experience, I really liked this class. I learned something new every single week and got practice using GitHub (which I had never really gotten the chance to use before). The assignments matched up really well with the lectures. Even though people complain about not having all of the assignments released all at once, I think that they are released that way so that the lectures and assignments are in sync, which is actually kind of nice for spacing out your own learning in manageable chunks.
If you have a good group, the group project can go really smoothly, and it's a lot of fun getting to make an android app if you've never done it before.
Though it did not affect me, I do know that grading was fairly harsh and unforgiving for some of the assignments (i.e. Assignment 6).
I think opinions of this course are largely dependent on 1) how much people already knew going in and 2) grading, so consider your own experience carefully when going into this course. If you're familiar with Java and OOP, I would guess that you'll be fine. If you've done software development in the past, you will more than likely be bored in this class.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 81
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 22, 2021fall 2021
If you had experience working in the IT industry this course wouldn't be that big of a deal for you.
I have a background in software testing and this course was pretty easy for me.
Just make sure to read the assignment carefully before starting.
The only issue you might have is team assignment which basically depends on the entire team's performance. Worst case scenario you would have to do it alone. Luckily this assignment is not that hard overall and if you developed an android app for leisure or have experience in Java programming you'll manage it.
My team was not that bad at all, only one person didn't code.
Overall I enjoyed taking this class.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 82
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 22, 2021fall 2021
SDP is a fairly easy course - I am new to Java and I was doing well.. until
The Assignments 6 and Individual Project.
So I was doing pretty well in my first assignments. I did learn a lot from the group project - proper git usage, proper communication with groupmates, models and Android in general. However, I really dislike the fact that the grading is so artificial. I think they are intentionally failing students maybe because the course is fairly easy so there should be students that SHOULD fail.. not sure.. I don't like to accuse, but this is just a feeling.
Also, gradescope is acting crazy. I have already complained about the unfairness that surrounds this tool but who cares .. TAs are not the best at all about helping.
In all fairness, I have learned a bunch in this course, as a newbie.. but I strongly dislike the grading, it is not fair.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 83
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 20, 2021fall 2021
SDP has the potential to be a great and very useful class but there are currently a lot of issues with it. First off, prepare for a lot of unnecessary tedium, vague instructions, and shady/lack of transparent grading which is really an attempt at artificially increasing the difficulty of this course.
The 6th assignment in this class for example was extremely vague and was graded pretty harshly. Compared to the group project which had multiple deliverables and spanned over a month, assignment 6 had a one week deadline yet was worth %15 (3% less than the group project).
For Assignment 5 which was a much much simpler assignment than assignment 6 and was only worth %2 of the final grade, it literally took TAs an entire month to grade this which is completely unacceptable.
No feedback was provided each week for any of our one week deliverables for the Group Project. And it was almost a month after submitting the final project that we actually received a grade. This would have been fine if we received feedback for each deliverable, but it never happened. So between the first week of Oct and late November, we were completely left in the dark on how our project did. Only to finally get a project grade with vague, trivial and nonsensical point deductions.
The assignments which involve using Git, working with Junit tests and using Android Studio are very helpful and have good value, especially for newer programmers. But again I'm not fan of this course's grading practices, TA attitude problems (especially on Ed) as well as how the Group Project and subsequent assignments were handled.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 84
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 13, 2021fall 2021
If you have no background in coding, this class is not easy. The assignments are not difficult, but the individual project is really challenging for me. Really don't know how to do the last 2 deliveries. I think everyone says it is easy because for group project, you will be assigned teammates who are good at java, most likely a software engineer. But the course content is not easy.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 13 hours / week

Review 85
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 4, 2021fall 2021
Good class if you are taking 2 courses (this and a hard one). I was able to balance well and learned a decent amount.
I see non csers struggle in this course for some reason. Makes me question if they can survive the other easy courses especially if this is their first or second semester class.. had a non cser in my group definitely gave him the minimal for contribution
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 13 hours / week

Review 86
Georgia Tech StudentNovember 8, 2021fall 2021
Background about me:
Mechanical Engineering.
CN(Fall 2020), GIOS, DL, GITA.
The definition of easy A course:
You will contribute little efforts.
You will learn barely nothing.
You will receive a beautiful A grade.
I thought this course was a boring easy A course, since it was reviewed almost the lowest work load in Computing System track.
But it turns out I'm wrong about the above impression:
I have contributed some efforts (SQLite API, Test Driven Development).
I have learnt something from the group project and individual project, which I will detail in the next paragraph.
I don't care if I can get A or B at the end.
Group Project:
Experienced team members taught me the followings: Wisely usage of github, data persistence implementation, Data Access Object and Business Service for Object Oriented Programming.
I have never expect that I can get any positive learning experience from a group project of online degree program. But this course changed my mind. I'm lucky enough to be assigned into a positive group.
Individual Project:
Test driven development.
Basic I/O operations with java
Object Oriented Programing.
Overall, I received more than I have spent on this course. By contrast, I have almost spent the same time on CS6250 CN. But I literally received nothing from CS6250 CN. Although I received an A from CS 6250 CN, the contrast of the bad learning experience of 6250 to good learning experience of 6300 are obvious due to the followings:
SDP designed solid projects for students to finish, in which some important concepts(such as TDD, OOD/OOP) were delivered through individual/group projects.
Compared with SDP, CN has much more abstract/broad concepts needed to be delivered. For 6250 CN, I even don't know which concepts should I learn, how well I've learnt from Exams/quizzes/projects.
SDP is different from 6250 CN. You can expect to learn some important concepts/programming methodology from SDP with reasonable efforts.
TL; DR, reasonable positive learning experience with reasonable
efforts.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 87
Georgia Tech StudentAugust 10, 2021summer 2021
Very easy course. No test or quizzes so you can choose to dive into the material if you desire or just focus on the assignments and projects. My group was incredible and everyone knocked their portion out of the park! There is definitely a little more work in the end of the semester but its not a ton more. I don't think there was a week I spent more than 6-8 hours ever in this course. If you are going for perfect scores on the latter assignments you might spend longer. If you are just looking to get an A, you shouldn't need a ton of time.
As for the material its good for an intro definitely. You should after this course have enough knowledge to more heavily research any of the areas covered. Would recommend pairing this course with another or taking this course a semester you know you'll be busy or need a little time to de-stress.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 4 hours / week

Review 88
Georgia Tech StudentAugust 1, 2021summer 2021
Pros:
Interesting content especially for someone with limited background in software engineering. For me it was useful to review git/github, software testing, and java basics, but for someone with a lot of experience in those areas it might be too simple.
Enjoyed the assignments with the exception of the group project.
No exams and almost no reading. Only a small amount of writing required to produce documents for the group project.
Many assignments have an auto-grader so you can get your grade right away and can make changes to your work as necessary.
Probably a light enough work load that this class could be paired with another class
Cons:
I got a less than stellar group for the group project and it was very frustrating to feel like I was working on my own for long periods of time. On the up-side, at least the group project counts for a small enough part of your grade that as long as you don't bomb it completely, you can probably pull off an A in the class based on your individual assignments. If you're worried about getting a bad group and want to prepare for doing the group project on your own, my advice is to learn as much about Android studio and building Android apps as you can. Learn how to make a responsive layout and how to persist data in a database with the Room library and you can probably crank out the whole project in less than 20 hours a week.
Professor and TAs repeatedly discouraged asking questions. I understand that it's frustrating when students ask questions they could answer by reading the assignment or by googling, but one of the main reasons I'm part of this program is to participate in discussions with students, TAs, and professors. Telling students repeatedly that they should not be asking questions isn't a great way to encourage collaborative learning.
Grades take forever to come back for assignments that aren't auto-graded so it's hard to tell how you're doing in the class.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 89
Georgia Tech StudentJuly 28, 2021summer 2021
This semester we had:
A1: Team Matching Survey (2%)
A2: Git Usage (5%)
A3: Basic Java Coding and Junit (10%)
A4: Simple Android App (Java Only) (10%)
A5: Software Design (2%)
Group Project (Android App Java or Kotlin) (18%)
Collaboration (Group Project) (10%)
A6: White Box Testing (15%)
Individual Project 3 Deliverables (Basically 3 Assignments) (25%)
Participation: Watch lectures and read every Piazza post (3%)
Liked:
First 5 weeks took less than 10 hours and easy
Group project in Kotlin
Class is not difficult tech wise
Disliked:
While not difficult it became time consuming starting after A5.
I hated A6 and the individual project. Super annoying assignments
Can’t work ahead. Assignments came out Saturday and closed the next Monday
If it’s not autograded then you will never know the grade until the very end after the individual project. So, the group project, A6, A5, some of A4, and the first part of the individual project.
I have industry experience 7 years. Basically, I liked this class for how easy it was at the beginning. I probably spent less than 10 hours on this class until A5. Once the group project started the amount of time increased. My group went with Kotlin for the android app. I rather liked the group project. Although everything after the group project I really hated. A6 really leaves a bad taste in my mouth. I understand the concept needs to be taught in this class, but 15% for this bs man come on. Why make A6 the make it or break it assignment? It is way to easy to bomb just one of the 5 questions on this assignment to tank your grade. The individual project is especially annoying. D1 TSL generator really sucks. Someone in EdTech should make this a project to replace this with a GUI. So, if you are going to take EdTech in the future please do this and save future students! So, D2 is making unit tests against the instructor’s program. I would plan to not get 100 percent on this assignment unless you have hours and hours of time. Getting an 85 – 95 on D2 is easily in the realm of possibility. D3 is actually making the program. Same deal as D2 though plan to not get 100 on this. I would say returns start diminishing at the 90 percent range.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 90
Georgia Tech StudentJuly 27, 2021summer 2021
Ignore the "you won't learn anything here" comments from people who already have a full cup... given that a high percentage of industry professionals simply can't write good tests, and an even higher percentage wouldn't know how to elicit requirements from a customer if their lives depended on it, I find it implausible that so many review here with "yeah, we already know this, easy A." Right. Watch out for those people; don't hire them.
If you are a competent, capable professional, you will still get something out of this class, and yes, you will likely get an A (grades are not out yet, but that is my expectation as well).
You will have to contend with the usual band of people who begin an assignment 8 hours before it's due and ask questions indicating that they haven't even read the instructions yet, and with the "what does main() do, newbie programmer here" crowd. How these people can look themselves in the mirror if they eek out a degree and claim to be "masters" in computer science, or why GT lets them in to begin with, is beyond me. But I digress.
Dr. Orso and TAs are helpful. Instructions are clear, if only people would read them. The quality of the lectures is pretty good as well. There is a group project, but if you are a quality software engineer, or seeking to become one, then any shortcomings in your group can be reconciled.
The individual project was extremely helpful in solidifying how to achieve good test coverage, without an explosion of test cases which become impossible to maintain.
In short: it's one of the few options for actually exploring software engineering in OMSCS, and it's a worthwhile class to take, even if you've been in the industry for some time. If you can code (surely you can--you're in grad school, aren't you?), are studious, know how to read and follow directions, and can work effectively with others, then you will have no problems in this class.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 91
Georgia Tech StudentMay 16, 2021spring 2021
I disliked this class, mostly because of the grading scale and the nature of the assignments. There's a lot of tedium associated with some of the assignments, and I didn't feel that they were necessary in order to enforce the concepts. The course feels a bit outdated, but I would recommend the course if you don't have experience yet working as a developer. If you do have experience as a developer, you won't learn much. I mostly just took it as an easy A.
For a more in-depth overview of the course, please watch my video overview of the course on Youtube, where I break down each assignment/deliverable for the course.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 92
Georgia Tech StudentMay 6, 2021spring 2021
This class is fairly easy, especially if you already know some java and how to use tools like git. I got an A very easily.
Something to watch is that it's backloaded: I spent maybe a half hour per week on this class until the last few assignments where I spent a large amount of time.
Be careful of A6/The individual project. Together they make up almost 40% of your grade and all happen in the last few weeks, and they're not straightforward. A6 in particular: learn what a nested if statement is (note: an if/elseif is considered a nested if statement). Many students bombed this assignment because of that misunderstanding and lost a letter grade.
The individual project has 4 parts. The latter 3 parts are autograded in gradescope. The first part uses an outdated test case creator. This first part is where students lost the bulk of their points. I spent quite some time on it and got only a ~40% (not enough to hurt my grade). The professors make it seem like if you give it a good effort and learn to use the tool you'll get full marks, but they're looking for you to check specific test cases/scenarios, so be aware.
Regarding the content: I honestly didn't really care about it because I just needed a second class and want to graduate. I'm also a software engineer so I didn't really learn anything all that valuable other than the idea of path/branch/statement coverage which was an interesting thought experiment.
Overall, very easy but don't sleep on the last few assignments and make sure you read the directions carefully.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 93
Georgia Tech StudentMay 5, 2021spring 2021
I came in without any java experience and I was able to survive. This course is extremely well run. Prof Orso is very involved in the course (piazza and office hours). Most of the assignments are autograded, so that is a plus. A couple of assignments are manually graded and the return time is very long. They need to hire more TAs. Group project depends on your team members.
Overall: Very nice course, hands on and practical.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 94
Georgia Tech StudentMay 4, 2021spring 2021
As can be seen from other comments, if you don't come from a programming background this might not be for you. Competent knowledge of Java / debugging code / Googling questions will be needed to not really overexert yourself in this class. My review is from a perspective of a software engineer with a few years of programming experience.
Pros:
Accomplishes its goals of going over some software development strategies. A lot of it is common sense but the application of those concepts was well-honed in assignments, however tedious they might seem.
Professors and TAs are pretty active / willing to answer questions on Piazza
Assignments are auto-graded/pretty straightforward
No exams
Material is pretty easy to understand
Cons:
Assignments are tedious at times (cost of trying to enforce concept understanding)
Material is pretty derivative if you are doing software engineering fulltime. To be perfectly honest, I barely had to expend much effort on this class and only spent time on the projects/assignments maybe 1-2 days before they were due.
Last few assignments are pretty big in terms of weighting/work and takes a bit to get graded.
Does not seem suited for people that are looking for hand-holding when it comes to programming problems. Be able to google issues for yourself and definitely be familiar with Java!
If you have a few years of software dev under your belt and looking to double up classes, this will be your best bet. I doubled up with another class this semester and had very few issues. Definitely the easiest class I've taken so far.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 2 hours / week

Review 95
Georgia Tech StudentApril 27, 2021spring 2021
The course is great for developers that want a good refresher and a greater focus on software testing. The course starts out low for work load and then picks up towards the end of the semester. The content isn't difficult but I would recommend having a background in software development. Also, this class is a deliverable due every week kind of class but no exams.
A1-A4 are light weight assignments and you should easily get a 100 on these due to the auto grader. I wouldn't slack on these because the end of the course is the most difficult and is most of your grade. A5 is pretty straight forward if you put effort into it.
Group Project: I was lucky with my team and we were evenly placed based on experience. The group project and A4 are android apps. I enjoyed this because I have never built an android app before. My team put the work in and received 100%.
A6: A6 was challenging, you will learn white box testing in depth by the end of it. No auto-grader for this one, and we still don't have the grades. This is weighted heavily.
Individual Project: This was interesting.... and tedious. Learned a lot about test driven development but it was just a pain submitting to the auto grader a million times to see if you got the coverage you needed. Besides deliverable 1, you will know your scores. 4 deliverables total.
Pros:
Very active professor and TA
Easy for experienced developers
Most assignments are auto-graded, so you know your score and can re-submit until you get the score you want.
No exams
The slack is active
Cons:
The last three assignments are more than half your grade.
Grading takes awhile to return unless its the autograder.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 96
Georgia Tech StudentApril 26, 2021spring 2021
It's a good class and it's very easy/low amount of hours until:
-Group project (at least it's straightforward)
-Individual Project
The individual project killed this course for me. Documentation is vague. The 4 assignments related to it are extremely tedious and irritating. Implementing the utility itself is a slog because it's not interesting (it's the unix cut utility). Also, be prepared to spend at least 10 hours a week here, whereas most of the semester its like 5 hours or less.
Also, the grading towards the end has been horrible. Done with the course as of today and 40% of the grade is still up in there air and unknown. So far it's been over a month since we had Assignment 6 and still waiting on grades for it. Who knows how long we'll have to wait for grades for the individual project (last assignment). The individual project and the slow grading for A6 has left a bad taste in my mouth.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 97
Georgia Tech StudentApril 23, 2021spring 2021
Overall, this class was a good one.
The pros:
Professor active on Piazza, unlike many other classes in the program.
Professor acknowledges students who are always helping others in Piazza. It's probably the class where I saw the most students with a instructor-endorsed answerer badge in Piazza.
Videos are watchable: to the point and not boring, though the topics are a little outdated if compared to modern industry standards.
Many hands-on assignments that required coding, though the level of the challenge isn't that high for those with experience in the industry. This is understandable because it's an academic class and it does not expect students to have prior experience in professional software development. Therefore, if you have some experience, the class might not challenge you much.
Most of assignments are autograded, so it removes part of the anxiety in waiting for manual grading.
Group project is interesting.
The cons:
Content is not very relevant to modern industry development. There are relevant parts like agile methodology, design patterns and refactoring though.
Group project, like in any class in the program, can be hit or miss. I had a bad group and ended up doing the bulk of the work (5000+ Loc). However, I didn't know any Android development prior to the class and it was a good opportunity to get some experience with it. A con is that most of the Android resources are in Kotlin nowadays, but the project required Java, unless your entire team agree on Kotlin.
Not a fault of the class, but many students don't appear to be comfortable with Java or basic programming and flood Piazza with really trivial questions, most easily answerable by a 30-second Google search or a bit more tinkering. With that, Piazza often becomes bloated, hard to navigate and find the golden nuggets.
The individual project is bad. This is particularly bad because it's how the course ends, therefore it has the bigger impact in the students impression of the course quality. What makes the individual project bad is that most of the deliverables are not challenging in a good way. For example, in week 2 we had to create test cases for a command line application that we didn't have access to. To earn points, though, those tests had to cover the same things as the instructor's hidden tests. I came up with a lot of different tests that the instructors hadn't thought about, but wasn't rewarded by that. Moreover, getting, let's say, 85% of the total points was pretty easy, but to get 100% it required 10x or more the time invested, but this time spent wouldn't necessarily translate into learning since it's a brute-force find-the-hidden-tests endeavor.
There was one TA who probably oversees the individual project, but I don't remember seeing the other TAs on Piazza the entire semester. Maybe in a thread or two. They probably help the most with grading, but it would be nice to have a more balanced presence on Piazza since most of the instructor answers are always by Prof. Orso.
Manual grading of some assignments can take a long time. It didn't bother me, but some students were anxious about it.
Overall, it's a good class, just set your expectations appropriately and be flexible.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 98
Georgia Tech StudentApril 22, 2021spring 2021
This class was very straight forward. Perfect for taking after a burnout semester. Very well organized, both Professor and TA's are very responsive. I had an "OK" group for the group project, I ended up doing a majority of the work, but the group project wasn't worth as much as the individual project, which was satisfying. The material itself is very high level, but gives you a good overview of certain development processes that exist in the industry. I had no Java experience coming into this class and had absolutely no problem learning it on the fly. This should be an easy A for anyone who takes this class.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 99
Georgia Tech StudentApril 2, 2021spring 2021
This is a very well-organized course where the assignments are highly correlated with the lectures. The professor is one of the best (in my experience the best after 5 courses) in terms of involvement. He is always in office hours, resolves one by one all the questions and he is very active on Piazza, even providing answers to follow-up questions.
This class is the perfect example of a class that can be easy but you will enjoy and actually learn by doing the assignments. For example, I worked before in testing and verification, but in this class, I realized that some of the concepts in this area were not so clear as I thought. In one of the assignments related to white-box testing the assignment looked easy, the coding was minimal, but I had to think a lot to make sure I was applying the concepts correctly.
Also, contrary to what I initially thought, the group project was highly satisfying, maybe I was lucky, but the instructions were very clear and allowed the group to organize very well to plan, design, and implement a small project. In the end, all the members felt this was the best group of our career (XD).
Now, I could imagine that if you already took several courses related to testing, SW design, arch, and continuous integration tools, you might feel that the course will be basic for you. My experience comes from EE background, but somebody from the group was also a CS minor and she also enjoyed the course.
Having said that, I would say this is the perfect class to take after burning out a course (like ML) or to pair with another low demanding (something in the range of 10-12hrs). Actually, one of my group partners took it with GA and he still was very active in the group, but I guess it depends on the workload that you can take and experience.
finally, I highly recommend this class in terms of usefulness, low-moderate workload, and organization.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 9 hours / week

Review 100
Georgia Tech StudentJanuary 26, 2021fall 2020
I wish every course at OMSCS could be like this one. It's super fun, if I could take it ten times to get the degree I would. If I had to do the group project alone, I would, and I hate working hard. The lectures apply to the material unlike other classes. The material is taught like they got some sense instead of encrypted with meaningless unrelated assignments like in every other class. The instructor responds to every single student Piazza post. Again, this is the only class where that happens. There are no exams. Exams are the absolute worst thing in the world. Me and one other person put a lot of effort into the group project and seeing our code mature into a beautiful butterfly was a wonderful experience. The other two group members performed like I would expect from average students: they do one or two things and let you do the rest. And I absolutely loved it this time. For once it's not busy work, it's an actual fun project with many possible relevant solutions. Android studio is fun to learn. This class is flawless.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week
