AI, Ethics, and Society
Name
Listed As
CS-6603
Credit Hours
3
Available to
CS students
Description
This course covers various Artificial Intelligence and bias mitigation techniques that can be used to counterbalance the potential misuse and abuse of learning from data.
Syllabus
Textbooks
Weapons of Math Destruction: How Big Data Increases Inequality and Threatens Democracy

Review 1
zIZzXHYQ2jFLtOKoXRineg==May 16, 2026spring 2026
This is a good easy course to pair with another harder course, however I can't say I learned too much. To me, the main drawback to this course is the assignments, not the lectures. The lectures were informative and concise, but could have elaborated more on some more recent subjects/topics. On the other hand, the assignments were very confusing and I kept finding myself just trying to get it over with instead of taking the time to understand things. Also it would take days for TAs to answer questions on Ed, which prevented me from posting there and instead I just did what I thought was correct. I think the assignments should be more open-ended and less based on specific directions. I put workload as 5 hours because some weeks there was closer to 10 hours of work for assignments/lectures, but many other weeks were 0.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 2
9pEdpQDivOdcw7tBj2YAJA==May 9, 2026fall 2025
The course itself is very easy. For people who want a BS easy A, this is the class.
[1. Course Topics]
This was one of the first courses I took alongside ML4T, but while I liked ML4T, I was pretty disappointed by this course. There were definitely some things I learned about ethics and general AI topics like getting small exposure to NLP and ML, as other reviews say it's pretty redundant, and doesn't go too deep.
[2. Actual Work]
I do think the topic itself is interesting and important especially in today's tech. development, but the work in this class is mainly tedious grunt work. Nothing really substantial, just alot of looking at data, making some charts or graphs, and slapping together a simple report (when i say simple, it is very simple. A joke compared to something like ML4T) If you hate this kind of stuff, then you might want to avoid the course.
There's one midterm and a final "exam" which is just a take home project. The midterm kinda threw me off because there's a lot more writing than I anticipated. But I still did fine.
[Overall]
Overall I got like a 98. If you want an easy A, this is it. Just don't expect too much and be ready to do a bit of tedious work. Not a lot, but still annoying.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 3
LdUCwaravOrZ37Up9FutNA==May 2, 2026spring 2026
The content was interesting though, as others have said, repetitive. I think any AI course needs frequent refreshing these days, so this does feel a bit behind.
The course is mainly writing. It is crucial that you answer all questions, no matter how redundant your answers feel. And absolutely, positively, do not stray from JDF format in any way, shape or form. If you're stuck on how to fit your content, ask questions in Ed Discussions.
There is oje exam, the midterm. The final exam is yet another writing project. The team project can be done solo. The paper can easily be done solo, so I woild recommend not chancing a poor team.
Every point I got off on anything was either not answering a question fully or formatting issue. It felt like the actual content was nearly irrelevant aside from whether it answered the question or not. I'd prefer to feel like what we spent all our time writing was scored rather than fully as to whether we fit within a formatting metric. At least it was pretty easy to get an A.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 4
hjEmODHulqdhKFrxuEJHTA==April 27, 2026spring 2026
This course was pretty much exactly what I expected. It's heavily focused on writing, which was honestly a breath of fresh air for this program. The module lectures and slides were solid, the workload was super manageable, and I genuinely enjoyed the course content. I think it's a fantastic class to start OMSCS with.
The assignments cover a good range of topics, from analyzing bias in generative image models to working through fairness metrics hands-on using real datasets. Nothing felt like busywork; everything tied back to concepts that actually matter in the field. If you have any interest in how AI systems can perpetuate or amplify real-world biases, this course gives you a solid framework for thinking about it rigorously rather than just abstractly.
The group project was certainly the one part I was least excited about, but it wasn't particularly difficult. You can work solo if you prefer, but if you choose to work in a group of 2 or 3, you pair up with someone via the ED discussion board. Having a partner makes it a bit easier, but it would have been manageable either way.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 5
7o5/Qgul8567CvjdgPz0Qg==January 8, 2026fall 2025
This course is a good introduction to explainability and fairness in ML/AI. It is named the same as a conference called the AAAI/ACM conference on AIES which specializes on the same topic this course teaches. There is also a journal that publishes proceedings of the conference. I mention this because it gives students insight into exactly what you're signing up for. This is not a computer ethics class nor an AI ethics class in the pure sense. The "society" part is important because it takes a sociological lens and fairness here is understood in terms of bias against social groups. So once we understand the purpose of the class the material all makes sense. I docked a star because some of the assignments felt tedious, but I acknowledge it's hard to test for knowledge without some repetitive tasks. This is a highly important subject that is understudied and rarely used in industry but definitely necessary.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 6
VZuizvJ61QQ8b9TKcMFtTQ==December 1, 2025spring 2025
Honestly took this class as a break from the intensity of other ones. Was nice to have more of a social life for a semester.
As the other reviews called out, there's a strong focus on DEI and de-biasing datasets. It's absolutely something we should learn about, but it felt like the course just kept repeating itself. I left the class wanting more to learn about AI and ethics, especially in a world dominated by LLMs now. I will say I did like learning about the different strategies for fairness though
Realistically could spend 3 - 5 hours a week and slam everything out. The hardest part was actually remembering that I had assignments to do
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 7
PfmIAfgIvMdo9V5jd4mYPQ==November 17, 2025summer 2025
Took this fall 2025 but had to choose summer 2025 since there's no fall 2025 option on here yet.
This class is tedious busy work, repeating the same stuff in every single homework, response etc.
If you have the patience and want an A and don't care about learning anything, take this class.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 8
2X4gT7/0utSv0tP6WcTDUw==August 4, 2025summer 2025
I took this course to pair it with KBAI this summer because I do feel that ethics are important and also a big challenge with the exponential growth of AI.
Honestly, I was very disappointed with the course content. With so many aspects of Ethics and societal impacts of AI, the course was overly/totally focused on DEI and data biases. The course content could have been covered in about three lectures and the remaining time left to cover the many other aspects of ethics in AI.
The course is composed of many small submissions. There were 22 graded submissions ranging from the syllabus quiz to the Final Exam/Project. All of them except surveys and the midterm were writing projects and you had to use Python or Excel to generate the information you needed for the reports.
Lots of reviews comment on the assignments and the work involved so I am not going to duplicate that effort other than to emphasize two things:
If you answer the questions in the rubrics, even if you are repeating yourself at different points, you will do fine. Give them what they are asking for. In the entire course I missed 5 points on the midterm exam and 2 points on one of the written assignments. This strategy works.
The final exam which is a project was the only significant challenge in the course and 90% of the challenge was finding the topic and data I wanted to use as the basis of my final project submission.
In the end though, I was able to accomplish my goal. I had an easy course for the summer to pair with a more involved course.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 9
1Pg6oH9Oh6M3xfCDcnfaFA==August 3, 2025summer 2025
This course is easy but has very heavy workload on assignment. Assignment sometimes doesn't have very clear instructions so you need to confirm with TA and classmates.
It is an easy course but requires a lot of time.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 10
Nv/cUqz/VWjhuBzXzesP/g==July 31, 2025spring 2025
Note: Class Taken Summer 2025 - option not yet available.
Summary
I’m in the camp of people who genuinely feel AI ethics is an important topic which deserves serious attention. Unfortunately, this course in my opinion is both outdated (especially with the new concerns around LLMs and AI’s impact on society) and very superficial.
It also has some annoyances – mostly due to being outdated (broken links, asking for modern research when most research that’s more modern isn’t applicable to the outdated coursework) – which can make the class too annoying to say it’s a trivial ‘easy’ class.
Details
The course does a decent job introducing basically ‘how to lie with statistics’, basic data privacy, and very basic concepts around legally protected characteristics. It does a poor (but extant) job of introducing anti-biasing techniques specifically for predictive algorithms and word2vec. It does an extremely poor/superficial job of introducing some of the more complex challenges around bias in generative AI and basically nothing on how to try to address the issue. It also doesn’t even attempt to deal with the broader social or economic impacts of AI.
There are also lots of small annoyances – such as the coursework asking you to use broken links, libraries with broken pip (to the point where they suggest you try to write your own) and requesting research with data sets when most modern research is on topics where you can’t really apply class concepts.
Really, this class needs a revamp to catch up with the times, and would also benefit from increasing the depth the material was covered in – it can do that and still retain its status as a good burnout-healing class.
Would I recommend it?
If you’ve never run into these topics before and you’re looking for a semester to recover from burnout while still counting as an elective in two tracks than maybe. However, if you’ve ever had any prior interest in AI ethics, data privacy, or statistics on a practical level or you don’t want to feel you’ve ‘wasted’ one of your 10 classes on something that you really could have covered in more depth in some other way then no.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 11
UA/CosFu9ofcaq2tZ3VSgw==July 28, 2025spring 2025
Summer 2025 review:
I work full time and had travel plans so wanted an easy course for the summer. AIES felt and was a good match for me. Lectures were good, TAs were responsive and assignments were released 2 weeks in advance so was able to work ahead for the most part. It requires basic python experience and you can pick up Pandas, matplotlib and numpy as you go.
Assignments:
The first 4 assignments were easy and straight forward. I felt the fifth one was needlessly complex and time intensive. It could have been omitted or turned into another written critique since I felt the Final Project and the 5th assignment were quite similar. Grading is lenient which was helpful. As with any course, the rubrics are the key and if we answer every point from the rubric, it mattered more than ensuring to have the correct answers.
Written critiques:
This was my favorite part of the course. I enjoyed the first one about autonomous vehicles. It made us think deeper and tie in our responses with course concepts. The second one was about a What-If Tool, I had to rephrase a lot due to page limits and also the need to fit in screenshots.
Final exam:
Finding a suitable article was difficult and took more time than doing the write-up for this. Definitely recommend to start this early and work on this and the final project in parallel.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 12
waOELleCMCnHjYrwxXJVtA==July 28, 2025spring 2025
I took CS 6603 in Summer 2025. Overall, the class was easy to complete, but it didn’t offer much depth. While I think the course has potential, especially given the importance of the subject, it didn’t deliver as much value as I had hoped.
The weekly discussion questions touched on some important and interesting topics. That said, they were often framed in a very specific way, which pushed students to respond in one particular direction. This helped guide the conversation, but also limited opportunities for students to share different perspectives. Since everyone ends up making similar points, the required follow-up responses can feel repetitive. It also raises the question of whether you're replying to a classmate or just reading something generated by an LLM.
The lectures aren’t really necessary. You can get all the key information just by skimming the PowerPoint slides. The required book, Weapons of Math Destruction, is worth reading on its own. However, it isn’t truly integrated into the course. Some discussion topics touch on themes from the book, but since the questions are pre-set and structured so tightly, the book doesn’t add much to the actual coursework.
The coding assignments were straightforward and felt more like Python practice than meaningful ethics work. The instructions were extremely detailed, which made them easy to complete, but there wasn’t much thinking involved beyond following the steps and formatting everything as required. It felt like the assignments were designed more to simplify grading than to encourage exploration or creativity.
The written critiques were the most useful part of the course. Although the questions were still fairly guided, they gave more space to develop your thoughts and apply the material in a more meaningful way. This was the one area where I felt like I was engaging with the subject more directly.
One area I think the course could really improve is in connecting to current events. For example, during the term I took it, there was active debate in Congress over a proposed AI state-law moratorium, which if passed, would’ve prevented states from passing laws relating to AI for 10 years. It would have been a great opportunity to bring that into the course through a discussion topic or assignment. A little more flexibility and awareness of what’s happening in the real world would make the course more engaging and relevant.
In the end, CS 6603 fell short of what I expected from a graduate-level course on such an important topic. It lacked depth, didn’t adapt to current events, and relied too heavily on structured responses and rigid assignments. To be fair, designing and administering an ethics course at this scale is not easy. Encouraging thoughtful discussion, maintaining academic integrity, and keeping material current are all difficult in a large online setting. For students already comfortable with Python or familiar with basic AI ethics concepts, this course offers very little. Even as an easy A, the busy work and lack of meaningful engagement make it hard to recommend. As it stands, the course feels underdeveloped and brings down the overall reputation of the OMSCS program. I truly hope this course can be improved.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 13
HeiTHwPz+3EI+hLqWEUPVw==July 10, 2025spring 2025
This class is easy but a waste of time. You likely won't learn anything meaningful, but note that most of the time spent will be on the assignments. They're much shorter than the typical OMSCS assignment, but they're tedious with ambiguous instructions. Everything else takes minimal effort. Take this if you want a semester off or want to pair this with a harder class.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 14
lVaErvC+H+S2COrzPeOalw==May 3, 2025spring 2025
I finished the course with an A, achieving a 98.17%.
Background:
Bachelor's degree in Computer Science from a university ranked #377 out of 436 National Universities in U.S. News
English is my second language (TOEFL score: 95/120)
1 year of experience as a full-stack developer
Overall: This class is lightweight compared to other OMSCS courses. The topics covered in the lectures are easy to understand, but they prompt you to think more deeply about concepts you might otherwise overlook. I highly recommend this class.
Class Discussion/Exercises (59/60): This part is pretty straightforward—just follow the instructions and give your own opinion. Don’t use AI-generated answers. Each exercise took me only about 10–15 minutes to complete. The only point I missed was due to a misunderstanding of the question.
Written Critiques (102/105): This is like a longer version of the Class Discussion/Exercises. The instructions are very clear, and I missed three points because I answered one of the questions incorrectly.
Projects (495/400): I think it's interesting and fairly easy. Just follow the instructions, and you'll be fine, but make sure you understand what you're doing, as you'll need it for the final project.
Final Project (100/100): If you understand what you did for the projects, this will be easy. I found the dataset on Kaggle and simply applied what I learned in the projects to it.
Mid-Term Exam (71/78): I'm not the best at taking exams, but I'm happy with my score. The downside is that they don't reveal the correct answers, so you can only 'guess' whether your score is good or not.
Final Exam (100/100): I really liked how the final exam was designed—it felt practical and relevant to real-world experience. However, the most challenging part was finding materials that matched the assignment requirements. I recommend starting your search for suitable resources as soon as the assignment is released.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 15
+nzeCBUmALuR4svysa4e/w==May 3, 2025spring 2025
Me: Undergrad in CS. Second Semester (Took HCI (A), KBAI (A)). I'm a full-time student. I took this alongside RAIT (High B. Its a very easy A, I was just lazy). It's my first semester at GaTech.
Grade: High A 97%.
It's a good course. Teaches you different short comings of Ai uses. Lectures are easy to follow. TAs are helpful in Ed. Many assignments, but most are short. Can get annoying tho, but they're all very easy. Exams are piss easy too. I did everything 1 night before every week and got 95%+ in all. Almost no coding experience required. Easy stuff. Easy A.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 16
3WiTfNNNlVhJ3CIsEPdiOg==May 1, 2025fall 2024
engineering, non-cs background
This was a pretty easy class. I used this class as an introduction to OMSCS, since I did not study CS in undergrad. Make sure you follow the assignments very closely and answer each question EXPLICITLY or you will be docked points. Leave nothing up to interpretation. I ended up with a 96% in the class.
Unlike others, I believe the information in this class is important. But, I do wish they would've asked us a bit more complex questions and focused more on certain topics.
Overall, this is a great class to take in the summer, paired with a harder class Fall/Spring, or your first class (if you have a non-CS background).
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 17
sO8OJlQ/P8sVDM5eftGHRA==April 21, 2025spring 2025
My opinion on this course can be summed up as this; the course has great potential, but it needs substantial revision. I think the topics covered in this class are both relevant and important, but the method of delivering that information is not great.
The assignments feel like a lot of busy work and don't add much value. I made the suggestion on the course feedback that I would have rather had larger and more involved projects than a bunch of small writing assignments. There were also instances where some of the tools we were using were no longer supported or maintained leading to issues for the whole class.
I would put this class on part with a Junior-level undergraduate course. I took this class alongside SDP, and both classes amounted to less work than GIOS by itself.
In summary, AIES is OK, but if you have the time and energy to put in then I would recommend taking something else. I gave it a shot despite the reviews and I didn't like it.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 18
//qk5RcLJyHe+U76P6Azhw==April 10, 2025spring 2025
This is quite possibly the worst module I have ever had the misfortune of taking in this entire course.
The entire coursework is nothing but pure busywork. If anything, it is probably indicative of the actual work that awaits you in society
The final exam is quite possibly the worst part of the entire course. Without going into too much details due to academic code, suffice to say that the final exam is probably representative of the problem with the way this entire course deals with assignments and projects.
Take this, but grit your teeth, and expect nothing like the rest of the courses in OMSCS. You will probably learn nothing from this, but you will be capable of spelling privileged correctly by the end of this course.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 19
00lffzO9jSap9D/Z7/QkKw==December 14, 2024fall 2024
Not sure what the big fuzz about low rating of this course is about it. I liked this course: professors explains things well, their points are spot on (in most of the courses in GaTech, professors' english is not even comprehendible.) You are going to learn more than a few things, even though one may thing it's obvious: e.g. how to conduct a poll, corporate data manipulations etc, how to mitigate bias etc. Case in point, by forcing people enter their gatech email in order to post reviews, this brings bias to all of these reviews.
While personally don't agree with the DEI or the need of mitigation, but during the course I left the politics out and I focused to learn the topics, and what AI is about. Also, for those who need more depth, the professors give links to materials of how mathematically bias algorithms are implemented.
Glad I took this course.
PS:
Exam1 was a bit a black box one, but other than that I enjoyed this course. Exam2 challenge was where to get the data for corps which abuse with AI. Took me 3 days to get find the data, but that journey was priceless: forcing me to explore diff gov sites for data, filter and link them. Well, just happened that UnitedHealthcare CEO was murdered and his company was sued for misuse of AI.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 20
Ao6RGzBz4DZeu+8dw7E1TQ==December 14, 2024fall 2024
The course is fairly straight forward. The material is easy to understand especially if you have worked with ML previously. The group project is not over demanding. The final exam was changed at the last minute to be a last assignment. Some of the assignment descriptions could use better wording as it becomes ambiguous what the directions are asking the student to do. There were a few assignments where I lost points including the "final exam" for what I believe to be misunderstandings by the T.A.. The few times I tried to reach out for clarification or rectifying the situation, I was met with silence and so I took the small amount of points lost but earned an A overall.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 4 hours / week

Review 21
vsibVbdFfYHQ84sN6cGhvw==December 10, 2024summer 2024
As others have said, this is a statistics course and very little is taught about actual AI. This class should be more appropriately called 'ethical societal discrepancies' or something like that as all lectures focused on issues in how datasets could be misconstrued. That being said, the lectures are very informative and easy to follow and have everything you need to succeed on exams.
Almost all of the assignments consist of downloading datasets thousands of rows long and finding ways to correlate data. This can be done with coding or this can be done with excel manipulation. Very straightforward and pretty easy. But pretty important as finding correlations between variables is the bread and butter of any data scientist.
Informative, valuable, and easy course.
p.s. Don't listen to the whiny comments complaining about the content. Its literally not that bad and they're being toddlers.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 22
w8O28GZbi4QsOKRokvPQ3w==August 5, 2024summer 2024
This class is as easy as everyone says it is, so it's good if you're pairing with another course or need something easy because life is otherwise busy.
Here's the rub, though - it actually has something important to say, and I would recommend that anyone in the ML specialty take this course. Specifically, this course teaches one thing: the bias/variance tradeoff can have dire, real-world consequences, and you need to think about how to navigate this tradeoff, or change your models so that you modify how bias is shaped.
In a vacuum, this seems like a really straightforward statement, but when you're inundated with tons of bad statistics, bad applications of data, bad applications of models, and bad modeling in general, it makes you reconsider your approach.
Similar to how ML4T is not really about trading, this class isn't really about ethics, but rather how ML models can be difficult to wrangle even in the best of circumstances, and being a good technologist/data scientist means understanding the nuances of the real-world implications of your models.
So, yeah, it's easy, but the core of the idea of the course is really important, and lesson really only becomes clear after you've been beaten over the head with it a number of times.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 9 hours / week

Review 23
y6xgZdnX5shQuDopNlh0iw==July 7, 2024spring 2024
I strongly don't recommend this class. Most people (including me) take it because it's an easy class with a somewhat interesting subject area and makes for an easy semester/combo. That's correct, but I strongly underestimated the amount of bullshit assignments and the general bottom of the barrel quality of lectures here. If you'd like to learn about AI Ethics, read Weapons of Math Destruction by Cathy O'Niel. It's an interesting airplane read type of book that still covers all the topics at more depth than this entire course's lectures. And you can skip a bunch of bullshit assignments making graphs, writing a paragraph, and then repeating 15 times for blatantly obvious things.
If you'd like an easy class that will still teach you something take Computer Networks or Security Operations and Incidence Response (strongly recommend) and just skip this.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 24
SD19ykVv92Wjq5tetG7Kfg==June 30, 2024summer 2023
This review is for Summer 2024.
First, if you know Python going into this course, the assignment generally take only a few hours per week. Most of the material is intuitive if you have some general common sense (as in: do you think exploiting peoples' data is a good idea or bad idea?).
The grading is very relaxed, and so long as you complete everything being asked this is fairly light course.
Now the not so great: are the assignments fully obvious in what the deliverables are? For an unbelievable number of people in the class, it appears that the answer is consistently a resounding "No!". I don't understand, as it feels pretty straightforward what is being asked; yet, such an opinion evidently puts me in the minority. Or maybe people just enjoy arguing over pedantic details. But nothing has been so overwhelmingly confounding that achieving an A is unobtainable, in my opinion.
Some assignments do tend to feel redundant and arbitrary, but with some basic Python scripting most things are not particularly complex. Yes, there's writing, and yes, this class relies on JDF (use LaTeX!). But there often are no page limits (looking at you HCI or ML, etc.). So the added stress of needing to edit down a document is non-existent here.
My final comment is that I wish all assignments released earlier; as it is, things are time released seemingly arbitrarily causing me to sometimes spend days with nothing going on. This gives a shocking amount of time to spare, which may be a pleasant reprieve from other OMSCS courses. So work ahead as far as you can; it's not a big time commitment---just prepared to be on standby until the next batch of tasks become available. Rinse, repeat, and try to tune out the often asinine posts your classmates will make on Ed throughout the semester.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 4 hours / week

Review 25
8AxDzE3RxkCU+WRxTiSsqA==June 20, 2024summer 2023
If you want to excel academically and earn an A while also considering real societal challenges related to AI, this is the class for you.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 26
I7Cv8k6jSIob8kYcl/jz0Q==June 20, 2024summer 2023
I deliberately don't rely on comments here to decide which courses to take. You should choose courses that will benefit your current situation, not just for the sake of learning, getting an A, or feeling proud of passing a tough class. I don't think any serious companies should hire any sophisticated classmates who dismisses notions such as bias and ethics as merely leftist ideas.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 27
/AO2b9uFNEUxLlYJ/EqCfQ==May 20, 2024spring 2024
So yes, this class is quite easy if you already have knowledge of basic stats. The assignments are very straightforward and the tests are fairly easy if you just watch the lectures. Now, some of the material is indeed worth discussing/interesting such as the laws and ethical considerations surrounding deployment of ML/AI. They also introduce you to some actual software tools and methods to mitigate bias and encourage you to think about the trade-offs when using these algorithms and what 'fair/unbiased' even means in some contexts.
I don't necessarily have a problem with a class being easy, my main gripe with this class is that some of the assignments/tests just seem poorly constructed. There were some questions that were clearly just asking the wrong thing or confused about the thing it was asking us to implement. Other questions were clearly going to return useless results, but the instructions from TA's were to just do it anyway and report those useless results. These questions should probably just be removed/edited? I felt that the intro stats material should just be made optional and dig more deeply into the bias/fairness techniques or something like model transparency/explainability. The final felt like a repeat of the final project, just a report of going through a use case of doing bias mitigation.
I'll contrast this with another class which I would also consider pretty easy (though I'd say slightly harder), but for which I gave a great rating: CS7632 Game AI. The assignments in that class are extremely well designed and incredibly fun, I actually cared about putting extra work in even though I didn't need to since the assignments were engaging instead of some....thing....that I would get out of the way in this class. A revamp/clean-up of the assignments to something more engaging/interesting would easily bump this class up to a 4.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 28
EO2e8iO8VHkbKLROCc6Pxg==May 2, 2024fall 2023
This is a pretty mid class. I expected a lot more discussion about the legal framework, ethics, or current events. Instead, it's a basic stats class in disguise. Really don't recommend wasting your time on this course.
Note to admins - you don't have [Spring 2024] as an option!
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 29
XD/oW6fEzRWbZM6AQpKFNw==May 2, 2024spring 2023
Spring 2024
A lot of grunt work that doesn't result in learning, but it works if you are trying to relax after some intense courses. Grading is lenient if you follow the jdf, and check all the requirement boxes. Exams are split into midterm, timed MCQs, and Final ,untimed.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 30
Lk7eFEPKT/Uqqqc2fkRxtQ==April 10, 2024spring 2023
This class is tied for third place as my favorite class in the program, including heavy hitters like AI/ML/etc. It is not a programming class, and it will have little utility for someone in a low-level individual contributor role. Instead it touches on issues that are likely to be hit as a team lead or manager in any regulated field, and more broadly any software that affects the public.
The course is fundamentally structured around US law. Professional Engineers have a legal obligation to consider the health and welfare of the public, and while most CS grads won't get a PE license it is still important for management and team leadership to consider the impact of work on society - even if you don't personally care about ethical behavior, the legal ramifications of getting these things wrong could land you and/or your employer in jeopardy.
Having taken engineering ethics at an engineering school, this is a well-designed computer science equivalent: an ethics class that introduces you to the legal and ethical issues that you are likely to face while you are developing computing, AI, ML solutions. I have run into some of these in real life, and it will be nice to have the legal background as a buffer / correction to my general inclination.
I enjoyed the lectures. I did not necessarily love the work in this class, but it was graded easily and didn't take all that much time, so as a way of keeping me on track it did what it needed to do.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 31
n70rALB3Re1J2WuKho9B4A==March 29, 2024fall 2023
A very dreadful class. Not much to teach or learn, and the homework is extremely tedious and repetitive. The content and assignments really need an overhaul.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 32
B9ODZY/BT5HrZA2E/KF9WQ==March 29, 2024fall 2023
I voted for Joe Biden in the 2020 election and this class made me decide to vote for Donald Trump this November.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 33
Kl6wd6HHkWJU/zR8wBs9Ww==March 17, 2024fall 2023
Ok. This class has merit. A lot of people here hate on this class, but it has a great purpose. It is an excellent introduction to AI, Stats, and Data Analysis using Python. If you've not done any of these before, it's a great chance to learn.
A lot of the criticism seems to come from right wing leaning people who are afraid the course is 'woke'. I don't think that's fair. Statistically, this class is showing when AI is biased and when it is not. Certainly many of the datasets we analyzed were not biased, and some were. If you want to approach subjects like race in an intelligent way, this class will give you the tools.
The fact that some of the datasets don't show any bias or even any statisctical pattern leads to my one critique. It can be frustrating to compute figures that are meaningless. Or graph outcomes that don't follow any pattern. Do not let that discourage you. Just report the results and let them be. That's how real data works. You're not going to get a bad grade because you don't find bias. Sometimes it's not there.
The assignments are sometimes a little ambiguous, but the TAs will clarify in Ed Discussion. I'm sure the TAs hate answering the same questions over again, and the course could benefit from updating the assignments a little bit.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 4 hours / week

Review 34
n70rALB3Re1J2WuKho9B4A==February 28, 2024fall 2023
My last and worst class in OMSCS. The class discusses misleading graphs, protected class and bias, which could be covered in less than a week at its depth. Instead this is a semester long course, so tons of repetitions just to fill up the time.
This class could've easily won the most tedious assignments award in my entire academic life. The assignments all exhibit an awful pattern of high volume of low value work. For example, in one of the so-called AI/ML assignments, students are asked to calculate mean and standard deviation for a dataset, copy that into a report and format, calculate those for 10% of data, calculate those for 60% of data. Repeat for a protected class, and repeat for all subgroups in the protected class. The calculation in Python is effortless, the time is spent on copying and formatting ~30 sets of values in the report. No one checks the result as long as some numbers are there. Data analysis is minimal, as long as you wrote two sentences.
It's surprising that this class at its current state is considered a graduate level CS course and one of the electives for II specialization. Anyone with basic coding experience, keep your sanity and stay away.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 35
mPajKgOPQ6pV3UfAxJIgog==January 5, 2024fall 2023
A solid class that introduces AI fairness. The class is fairly loose compared to a hard science class. Most questions are open ended and common sense based. People are nice, and I run into people with a wide range of experience some who has no coding experience and relies on Excel.
If you are woke, you are going to love this class.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 36
m2i/FCBPqKPCqMmtpsbukw==December 17, 2023fall 2023
This course fine, it has 4 modules:
Introduction to AIES
Stats (speed up)
Fairness in AI/ML
Fairness and bias
The course touch upon important aspect of the trendy AI, the danger of using biased dataset. I think the class is fine, maybe people gets frustrated with all the busywork, but this class is good to pair with some heavy classes.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 37
06SWacMTCp5m/Eg7Zrgopg==December 17, 2023fall 2023
The course starts out pretty interestingly. It gives a good intro to industry problems and stresses the importance of finding solutions. But, it gets kinda unbearable real quick. The reason for this becomes clear at the end of the course – there's simply not enough material to fill a whole semester with relevant topics.
So, what happens is that throughout the course, you deal with tedious calculations and engage in writing that, while intended to represent your opinion, often earns fewer points because you summarize banal concepts in a sentence and not 5. The same situation arises during the midterm, where you encounter questions like 'Do you think this graph is misleading? Why?' Surprisingly, you can actually give a wrong answer for it. The final presents an additional challenge with numerous criteria for the artifact you need to find. This leaves you with no other option but to rely on synthetic data with no real-life relevance.
The projects' instructions lack clarity, the staff responds to questions but often very late. That actually doesn’t make them fix the document. Because why bother when you can leave every student frustrated and allow each TA to decide individually how to assess the homework?
Too much time is spent on topics that shouldn't be part of this course, such as delving into the basics of AI and ML just to 'pad' the syllabus. Meanwhile, a mere 25% of the material focuses on the practical techniques for addressing the core issues. Even this content relies heavily on open-source libraries that are hardly maintained, or projects developed and supported by Google(...?).
In summary, The course manages to convey the importance of the subject but fails to encourage doing research due to exercises that lack depth. In my view, this material is better to be integrated at a basic level into any course touching upon AI/ML. The other option is to make it available to non-CS students only.
While the course is relatively easy, it feels like you're working without gaining much. You may spend only 6 hours instead of 18, but it doesn't impart meaningful knowledge or intellectual challenges.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 38
M1tKWAQmDe/GVdhtZdjGSg==December 14, 2023fall 2023
Loved this class. I know the try hards at GT love to hate on this class and they do have some merit for the hate but this was a solid class.
Pros: Good for data analysis using python. If you are new or experienced, everyone could learn practically examples from this. There are weekly assignments but it's easy for the most part. Read this, reply to this, give your opinion etc...
Cons: The assignments are pretty poorly worded. However, if you have a question, then more than likely someone else has already asked or it is in the document's FAQ sheet. It's really not as bad as others make it out to be.
This course would pair nicely with a more difficult class.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 39
B2R/DEtMZGuUBgdcFgzLTQ==December 13, 2023fall 2023
I timetracked my effort in this class. Overall I put in 52 hours over the course of 16 weeks or 3.25 hours per week. From this class, I learned about bias in algorithms, techniques for detecting bias and about protected classes.
If you have limited experience with python, pandas and matplotlib, this might be a good class to take to gain some exposure to those tools and practice. If you just need the course credits or need something on the lighter end, then this course might be a good match.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 40
4bAmToXB3t9tFYKjhRjd0Q==December 11, 2023fall 2023
This is my first/second course in OMSCS, paired with another class. There's very little programming involved. It's more like, can you find bias in these scenarios?
The weekly assignments are pretty easy. Sometimes it's unclear what they want you to do, but there will be several posts on Ed Discussion asking the same question you have, and the TAs do a great job answering. The megathreads for each assignment is posted by the TA several weeks in advance of the due date, with a FAQs PDF.
There are two exams. The first exam is an actual exam. I did not do any of the readings or look at the lecture slides, but still got a perfect score. The second exam is more of an assignment, and it is untimed. At the time of writing, I did not get my score back yet, but by that point I only need a 20% for an A.
There is a group project that requires some Python, but as long as you get into a good team, you should be fine. Some people even prefer to do it on their own. There's one fewer question for you to answer if you decide to do it on your own.
This is a really good class if you don't come from a CS background or if you're new to the program and need to satisfy GT's foundational requirements.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 41
+rlO22mv1WfHSZ5PuZEMhQ==December 4, 2023fall 2023
tl;dr This course is an easy A but you shouldn’t take it if you want to learn anything. It’s terribly run and a very frustrating experience. You’ll see this sentiment consistently mentioned below. Listen to it.
This course is my final course in the program, and it looks like I saved the worst for last. I got an easy A in the course, but it was so frustrating and made me dumber. This course is taught at a middle school level with really basic material like mean, median, and mode….seriously?! In a graduate course? And then at other times they’ll get you to do actually bad math like averaging categories (ex - convert this category to 1, this one to 2, this one to 3….now do some math with that like averaging / correlation?). That’s nonsensical and embarrassing anyone signed off on it.
The assignments are poorly written, and you’ll spend more time trying to figure out what they expect rather than actually doing the assignment. Yet there are no office hours, so you’ll post something to Ed and wait for staff to respond. Sometimes that can take days. And then the assignment is really basic like calculating a bunch of values and then putting them in a bulleted list. Oh, but make sure to use JDF because we’re going to pretend like it’s a hard assignment!
The course doesn’t take much time, and you could pair it with another course easily. You can finish all of the lectures in the first month of the course. But if you’re doing this degree to actually learn things, skip this course. It’s a shame they put such a low quality course for such important material. I’m embarrassed this course is part of the GT curriculum in its current state.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 42
G/Dh5fZY+4wzYnr9b/JUQw==November 10, 2023spring 2023
This class was boring for me. All of the assignments felt like busy work.
The mid-term is mainly free written text, with most questions asking the student to explain why a graph is misleading. You can make a good points and give an original thought or two, but if you don't say the keywords the grader is looking for, you won't get points on those questions. If the answer is fixed, why not make it multiple choice?
There will be many weeks where you will spend less than an hour of work. When assignments become due, you will spend a decent chunk of time doing them. Not because the assignments are hard, but because the writeups are unorganized and ambiguous.
The Ed Discussions were regularly filled with students asking for clarifications for each step of each assignment, so you're constantly piecing together what has been said in the Ed Discussions threads with the assignment writeup to find out what exactly you need to do. In my opinion, that level of confusion would mean its time to revise the write up.
The assignments involve lots of data massaging, and showing data in different ways. Again, it is not hard. I used Python, Grafana & Postgres SQL for all of the assignments to make them easier. They were all different variations of the same problems.
I don't think I learned anything..
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 43
7h4uZB2wQ2gmKEWLxBZEzg==November 6, 2023spring 2023
Easy yet the most frustrating course.
Assessments: Assignments, Weekly Discussions, Final Project, Mid Term (MCQs, Fill in the blanks, T/F), and a final take-home exam (similar to final project)
Pros: It's an easy A course if you do all the required stuff. The lectures are good (but you might not need them to complete the course because every assignment except the final exam is so basic). Good to pair with a harder course if you want to graduate early, but otherwise, not worth the amount you pay for it.
Cons: Each and every assignment is poorly written. You need to ask a lot of questions and search Ed Discussions to really understand the assignment requirements. TAs grade your assignment manually, so your score really depends on the TA who is grading you. Some TAs would cut marks for really basic stuff. For eg, if you write that the random variables are x, y,and z, instead of writing there are three random variables, you will lose points.
Conclusion: Extremely frustrating course, only take it if you just want an easy course and you dont care about learning.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 4 hours / week

Review 44
95z/4tVH2/qnkcBddQrlbA==November 5, 2023fall 2023
"AI, Ethics, and Society" is a survey course that explores how ethics in big data, or lack thereof, can be hugely impactful to society. In this course, you will absolutely write more papers than code. If your goal is to supplement your 1337-HAX0RR BIG DATA skills or even learn more about industry tooling in that space, you would be sorely disappointed; this isn't the class for that.
On the other hand: if you want a simple course with a light workload to wrap up OMSCS with and/or know more about how to ethically work with and review large data sets, this is a fine course. You could also pair this with another simple or medium difficulty (think 3.5~4 rating on OMSCentral) and not struggle as long as you have good time management. I work full-time, have two kids in school, am taking two courses this Fall, and have been able to keep up with both. Currently have an A in my other course and will likely pass this one with a high B or "low" A (narrowly missing "high" A because I f'd up on two high-weight assignments).
The class discussions/exercises are simple and can be completed within 15~30mins. Write-up/critique prompts are straightforward but you will want to be detailed to ensure you're meeting requirements. The projects are simple but TEDIOUS and ANNOYING. I won't reiterate what others have said but I will confirm at least that part of all the complaints is certainly true.
Mid-term exam is OK. I only partially watched some lectures and managed to get by with a low B. I'll perhaps try a bit more for the final.
My only complaint is about how opaque the grading is for the project assignments (which, altogether, account for 40% of your grade). While the assignments are absolutely on the easy side, they are also tedious and long-winded; you will definitely lose out on points if you mess around or skip reading the assignment FAQs; no rubrics are provided, you simply have to follow the instructions and hope for the best.
Good luck!
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 45
TreSFIHcK2mIcsyPqYBCsw==November 4, 2023fall 2023
This course is probably easy but it will give you the most frustration of all OMSCS courses. None of the assignments are properly written and you are expected to put in 10+ hours for most of the assignments even though it is an "easy" course. Don't take this course if you don't have to. I hated every single moment of this course and learned nothing. Definitely don't expect this course to be a breeze. This course should have even lower rating.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 46
/IdTlXZObRhDlCoYBsMh0A==September 26, 2023fall 2023
I really am enjoying the course. I cannot understand why some students gave this course a below average rating. The professor assigns plenty of interesting information to research and practical assignments to complete. This is NOT a programming course. Also you get out of the course what you put in. This is a social ethics in ML course so there will be readings and research papers. In the end, just like the other courses in the OMSCS program, if the course is not for you then don't register for it. In my opinion its a fun and interesting course.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 47
nynMnCH7hMXJ11JI336vnQ==September 14, 2023fall 2023
Why are you getting a masters degree if you want to spend your entire time doing busy work?
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 48
V+d3ui89TJhj0PenfNr4hg==August 7, 2023summer 2023
This was my last course in the OMSCS program. I took it during the Spring 2023 term but had to withdraw due to medical reasons. I decided to try again and take it over the Summer 2023 term. The general topic of the course seemed to be an interesting one, so in piquing my interest, I decided to take it. Even when I couldn't finish it in the spring term, I still was interested (and had a little bit of a head start) enough to take it over the summer.
Coursework
Class Discussion/Exercises (15%, 12 at 5 points each): These consisted of Case Studies and Exercises. Case studies were categorized as a discussion post to which you had to answer a couple of questions and reply to at least 1 other student's reply. The Exercises were essentially the same thing, but it didn't require a response to other students. There were 6 case studies and 6 exercises.
Projects (40%, 5 at 100 points each): These consisted of a lot of data analysis, interpretation, and plotting. If you know Python pandas, this will help you a lot, but it can be done with Excel as well. Biggest deliverable is a PDF report in JDF format. Project 1 analyzes advertiser information from a selected social media platform. Project 2 has you pick a dataset and perform a lot of statistical analysis. Project 3 (AI/ML Part 1) has you explore relationships, correlation, means, and standard deviations of a given dataset. Project 4 (AI/ML Part 2) has you use Python to analyze a similarity score between words as well as suggested answers to an analogy. Project 5 has you "look at the impact of computing and applying fairness metrics to "fix" data that could be used to train algorithms associated with learning from credit-based data sets."
Mid-Term Exam (10%, 78 possible points): This exam covered modules 1-8. It was open notes and open books. You could also use the lecture slides and transcripts. The notes could be physical or accessed on your computer. It is proctored through Honorlock. You have 120 minutes to take the exam consisting of about 27 questions.
Final Exam (10%, 100 possible points): Calling this an exam is far from the what most perceive as an exam. Very little comes from the modules after module 8. This involved finding an "artifact" released within the last 6 months and doing a report on it, answering questions in 4 various tasks. The artifact also had to have some form of data evidence (research publication, dataset, survey results, etc.) which could be used in answering and justifying your responses. Most of the time was spent on finding the article to meet the criteria. The article I found was somewhat interesting, but I did not learn much from it overall.
Final Project (15%, 100 possible points): This could be worked on by yourself or as part of a team of up to 4 students. This applies lessons/tasks performed in all the previous projects, assignments, and lectures. This includes graphs, predictions, bias, and fairness metrics. You have to submit a PDF report in JDF format as well as a Jupyter notebook. This involved finding a dataset meeting a set of criteria, analyzing the data, answering various questions, try to mitigate bias/fairness, and analyze the results.
Written Critiques (10%, 40 points for one, 65 points for one): These consisted of taking a topic, doing some research, apply some thought, and writing about it. The EAV (Ethical Autonomous Vehicle) had you analyze what an autonomous vehicle might do in a given situation and answer an array of questions about it. The What-If Tool had you run a COMPAS demo and answer an array of questions about it. Both had a deliverable in thge form of a report submitted as a PDF in JDF format limited to 3 pages max.
Take-Aways
Miscellaneous Stuff: I feel there is a lot of busy work, which is a pretty much waste of time (time filler). Extract data, run some calculations on it. Do some interpretation into protected classes. Plot some charts. Analyze those charts. Put all your analysis in the reports. While it could be interesting, most of the work felt like busy work. When it came to the assignments, there is A LOT of vagueness in the specification... to the extent you may spend more time looking through posts or asking questions on Ed than you will spend actually on the assignments. They re-used a dataset from previous semesters, and there is an issue with some data being split across two lines. Instead of fixing it for future terms, you have to ask about it, to which you will be told you can consolidate (fix) the lines. Not taking these 2 minutes to fix the dataset shows their attention and effort to the class.
Quizzes: Other than the mid-term, there really aren't any "quizzes".
Lectures: The lectures were pretty decent and able to keep my attention. I feel they could use a little work and some definite updating. You have to watch (mark as done) the Welcome and Course Information modules in order for other lessons to unlock. And, yes, you will have people complain on Ed that they can't access assignments or lectures because they haven't watched these modules. Most of the modules after 8 are not so important. Some of the modules may mention multiple points but only focus on a couple.
Textbook: The book listed as required for this course is Weapons of Math Destruction by Cathy O'Neil, 2016 edition, ISBN 978-0-553-41883-5. I personally never read or opened the book. Someone was able to find the book for free through the GATech online library, so dig around for it before purchasing it.
Case Studies & Exercises: These were more of a time waste than anything. Here is a topic. Answer these couple of questions. Reply with a reasonable response to other students, showing some thought.
Exams: The mid-term exam seemed really fair, especially when you are allowed to use PDFs of the lectures, the transcripts from the lectures, and any notes you may have taken. As for the "final exam," it was sort of a joke, but at the same time, it was a huge pain trying to find an article which met all the criteria set forth in the spec.
Professor and TAs: The entire teaching staff was great. The TAs have a very obvious present in Ed. They were respectable and responded in a decent time. The professor (Dr. Mandala) was never present, so the TAs basically ran the class.
Grading: The TAs try to get grades released in about 2 weeks or less, but given the number of students and the condensed summer term, it has taken a little bit longer. Mid-term grades were released around 2 am on the last day a student could withdraw from the course.
Overall Grade: In the end, my final grade was a 97.83, which got me an A.
TLDR
I started off in the course very strong, but due to an unexpected medical emergency, I ended up getting a little behind on the lectures. As a result, I found myself pulling a few late night weekends working on the homework assignments and case studies. In the end, I withdrew from the Spring 2023 course because my health was more important.
I decided to take this course over the Summer of 2023, which was a good decision. Overall, it is an easy course. It doesn't take too much effort. Just do the assignments and meet the ask in the specs, since they do not provide any rubrics. Do this, and you should be able to pass easily with an A. There is a lot of busy work. The assignment specs are very, very vague (again, more time spent on Ed asking questions or searching for answers than doing the actual assignemtn). The final exam is a pain in the rear and one of my least favorite parts of the course. As others have said, don't expect to gain much knowledge from this class because I didn't, other than what protected classes were. It would definitely be an easy course which could be coupled with another easy course during a Spring or Fall semester.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 49
HwZl5jbJAbv27ayeH8bCVg==July 18, 2023spring 2023
I used to briefly be an attorney working on civil rights cases. Those who put this class down don't have a real world understanding of the harm that can be done with bad data and algos. It was an easier class. But, if you apply yourself to really understand the intricacies of pre-processing, post-processing, and de-biasing, then it will take a while. Pair that with being not great with Python and you can easily spend 12-14 hours a week on assignments. Frankly, I loved this class for not having to hunt the world for how some weird math concept works as I had to do in other classes.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 14 hours / week

Review 50
keaufVj7I4UoKSG8ZRFGlQ==July 17, 2023summer 2022
The students leaving reviews saying this is the worst class they've ever taken are NOT exaggerating. I got flashbacks to high school busy work assignments. You will spend 6-8 hours on a project on mean, median, and modes. The projects are tangentially related to AI Ethics. The assignments are completely straightforward and easy, but you will spend half the time trying to decipher the question. There will be multiple questions asking the same thing in different words, but you will have to create many redundant Ed discussion questions to make sure of this (rather than the instructors editing the prompt). You will spend maybe 5% of each assignment actually thinking about AI Ethics, the rest is formatting your answer.
For one of the assignments, the prompt asks you to display information on 50 different words, each of which has multiple words associated with it. I did exactly this in table format, and of course table was huge, because there is literally no way to display this much information otherwise. They took off 2 points because the table was "barely readable". Lol. Not like I really care, because I got a 98 on the assignment anyways, but really? Why even take points off at that point? I don't even think the graders read the submissions fully.
The single most frustrating class I've ever taken across any of my academic experience. I was looking for an easy A and it was really not even worth it. You will spend just as much time as other classes, and get nothing from it, because your time was spent formatting results in a huge table. Then they will take points off because you did as they asked but they don't like how it looks.
It makes me feel a bit bad to leave such a negative review, because everyone working the course is very nice, but this class is truly appalling and is what prompted me to finally leave a review here. I really hope the program can redesign this course, because it should be extremely relevant and useful in my opinion.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 51
HbEYkatk+0l10XBA3CTqNg==July 3, 2023spring 2023
Ive never had a worse class in my entire academic career. You can get As on the exams without watching a single lecture. The assignments are basically just checked for completion, because I know my math was terribly wrong but i never got corrected.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 52
CU+6kBgOqN1KD7ZDImMi9A==June 7, 2023spring 2023
I paired this course with KBAI and it was still extremely easy. I skipped an entire project (10% of grade), did half of the final exam (10% of grade), did a quarter of the final project (15% of grade) and still ended up with a B.
My advice: pair this class with another harder class and just coast to get a B. If you're intent on getting an A, it'll be easy but you're going to get frustrated by the quality of the assignments.
Alternatively, get a B by doing the simple projects and critiques and just completely skip the final project and exams because they suck.
It's frustrating because the intersection of AI and ethics is really interesting and you see those bright spots sometimes but then then those sparks are snuffed out by a course that seemingly the instructor doesn't even care about.
Pros:
Exposes you to Jupyter, Pandas, and NumPy, which I have never used before. Even so, I was easily able to complete the assignments.
Exams are really simple. Midterm is a Canvas-based exam where as the final is more a "practical" take-home exam.
Grading is pretty lenient and TAs are nice
Cons:
Assignments are uninspired, boring, and descriptions are awfully vague.
Disorganized (assignments in canvas aren't listed in the way they're due
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 53
SdhR6RDZPJ8P3/2e6GKXxg==June 2, 2023spring 2023
The class might be easy but super annoying. You’ll spent more time on figuring out what the assignments are asking and doing the god damn JDF format for all the reports and assignments. Ed Discussions is full of questions asking for clarification on every assignment. The answers are also all over the place and not very helpful most of the time. Some assignments the staff hasn't bothered to correct it on the actual assignment but just make an announcement saying the wording is wrong etc. The TAs grading also seems very unfair and kind of sloppy. A huge waste of time and money. Only thing that was remotely interesting was the discussion post topics but even for those the grading was just too serious.
If you want to learn how to properly format in JDF format, take this class, you won’t learn anything else.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 15 hours / week

Review 54
sLaWhsPRieq/5Ge4vSSc7w==May 22, 2023spring 2023
I clubbed this course with Network Science. This was a very easy course, but will require patience, and most of the work would be repetitive unnecessarily long.
I think the course delivered in what it was intended to accomplish. Now I understand what ethical data handling means. But unfortunately only in an undergrad level.
This is my second MS, and this is the least course load I ever had.
If you are looking a easy course that will teach you some basics of ethical data handling while having a life :) (and getting an A), this is the one to do.
If you only striving for knowledge, this might not be the one.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 55
l0fccuOF6Bq5T8N/kuPFyQ==May 15, 2023spring 2023
AI Fairness is new, but very useful topic to learn. The topic itself probably more relevant than most other courses in GATech. However, I think this course isn't well developed, possibly due to it's a new course and needs some iterations to improve.
The lectures are pretty shallow, most stuff are common senses and you only need to scan through the slide for Mid-term (It's open booked). Final exam is like a project, you only need to echo back some contents mentioned in the course, which is pretty much anything related to AI Fairness.
The description of project is very bad, incorrect information and leads to confusions everywhere. Even TA can't make it clear about the project. But the good thing is the rubrics is pretty loose. They intended to make everything open ended in this course, so as long as you complete the high level requirements (even though it doesn't make sense), you can still get a pretty high score.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 56
okT3XmTMhiVBuQGw0UfeAw==May 11, 2023spring 2023
Please read the above reddit post. Loosely, it summarizes my thoughts. The grading is the MOST lenient of any course I have taken in this program and I am 8 courses in. Sometimes I will leave portions of assignments half-finished on purpose if I do not believe I need that portion for my grade. I would often still get marks for it.
The lectures are fine and I enjoyed them quite a bit. The assignments on the other hand are pure tedium - I’ve had less than 200 lines of code be used for a 15+ page reports due to the copy and pasting of the code or plugging in of different values. The assignment instructions are vague, have grammatical errors, and required constant TA adjustment during the semester. The Taste try to be as helpful as possible and are great otherwise but I believe the amount of busywork could be cut down in this course with a higher emphasis on quality, not quantity.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 57
ysijcFNZ+u0A9GPN24ntOg==May 10, 2023fall 2022
You don't have to put much into this course to get an A, but you won't get much out of it, either. I found the lectures to be pretty dry and would often fixate on topics in AI Ethics that I didn't find particularly actionable or applicable beyond the classroom. I had taken a similar AI Ethics course at my undergraduate institution that covered a lot of the big themes of the subject (algorithmic bias, major case studies, the role of the government/tech industry, etc.) and I felt like this course regurgitated a lot of that with little unique insight.
The short writing assignments were very simple and I don't recall them being graded stringently at all. Every "programming" assignment that relates to manipulating datasets or using ML models to test for bias can be completed using Google Sheets/Excel formulas, except for the final project, which is slightly more involved. I completed the final project in two sittings of about four hours each with little background knowledge in Python and received a high 90s grade.
This course would be useful to pair with a more difficult OMSCS offering, or as one of your first courses in the program. As previously mentioned, you will not learn much but it's an easy way to knock out 10% of your degree.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 58
vFWTixFU0s3VpLG1+NlauA==May 9, 2023fall 2022
Because of this course, I have developed a healthy distrust of AI and its evangelists due to inescapable biases in spite of mitigation strategies.
Do the final project by yourself. It's not too hard.
Overall, I enjoyed the course even though some of the assignments seemed tedious.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 59
QaHiGrgd+Pjfq59R17SqTA==May 9, 2023spring 2023
People who complained that the course is vague doesn't even know the true intent of the course. If you don't like it, don't take it - there are loads of people in the waitlist wanting to join. Just give it to them.
Indeed, it is a slog. But after taking other ML spec classes, and you need this to finish your ML spec, might as well take it for the easy A right?
You won't get docked points if your analysis is futile, as long as you turn something in. So don't worry if what you're doing is off by some decimal points. That said, it doesn't apply to the exams however.
That said exams are easy if you don't overthink. At the end of the day, this is just a class made from a purely leftist professor who already jumped boat out of GaTech. Just give them what they want and you get the A - guaranteed.
There is a group project, but I figured out with my project mates early on that doing it as an individual makes more sense, and ironically much easier because there is no time sink on waiting for collaborations and what-nots.
Ended up with 99.5% hardly breaking a sweat.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 1 hours / week

Review 60
0JoDXs3fSB6SyFgBbO/RDw==May 8, 2023spring 2023
The assignment wording is extremely poorly written, and you have to ask TA to clarify nearly every single one.
It is funny that TA also had inconsistent responses.
The course is an easy A, and you learned a bit about AI ethical metrics and remediation methods.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 61
E+YLEsDrlLWYqvO7Wg1Viw==May 7, 2023spring 2023
This class is extremely easy and I finished with a high A.I believe you won't learn anything useful. I was able to pair this class with another one and had no issues at all. I will say that the class is very interesting and the lectures are engaging. I am very surprised that this is a graduate class, this is more of an undergraduate class that you would take to boost your GPA. The stressful parts are that every week something is due but can be completed in 2-3 hours or 1 day. The Assignments are the WORST. So poorly worded and vague. You will spend more time digging through Ed discussions and understanding the assignment than actually doing the assignment so be vary of this. I can see why so many people complain about this course but I really didn't care because its an easy A.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 9 hours / week

Review 62
LTkGeg5mjFG8BPupiISUjQ==May 3, 2023fall 2022
AI Ethics is a fascinating field. There are a lot of great books and research on this topic. A great, less technical one I'd reccomend is The Alignment Problem by Brian Christian.
The Word2Vec assignment was decent. The homework was trivial but provided some decent practice with data manipulation using Jupiter Notebooks and Python.
Overall, if you just want an Easy A, this is the course for you. If you want to learn something about ethics and computer science, I would recommend reading books and learning about this topic outside of GT's AIES course.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 63
peAuhXGqVIEGN1MbmxjH0A==May 3, 2023spring 2023
This class is actually decent as long as you have the appropriate expectations going into it. Not nearly as easy as a lot of the reviews would lead you to believe either-- I spent a surprising amount of time using Python for some of the assignments. Some weeks 30 minutes, other weeks maybe 8 hours on doing an assignment very thoroughly and genuinely trying. The course itself is extremely repetitive and you probably won't walk away having learned an awful lot, but I found most of the data analysis we did to be very intriguing and interesting. I also have a newfound appreciation of bias/discrimination in datasets and in AI, which I think is all I could ask of the course based on previous reviews and based on my low expectations of an ethics course to start with.
Pair with another course, know what you're getting into, and give the assignments an honest go even though you'd probably get a 100 no matter what. You just might get something out of it, or at the very least, find an intriguing dataset for the final project that you can pull some interesting conclusions from.
Don't be one of the hundreds of people below saying "omg so easy such a bad class"-- those should serve as a massive red warning sign of what you're getting into here, because it's not for everyone. But for those of us that wanted an easier A, didn't mind the repetition/ambiguity on some assignments, and did have some interest in ethics in AI, it's not bad.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 6 hours / week

Review 64
z6maABbkvuTYV0U2wHI1Fw==May 1, 2023spring 2023
This class is an excellent candidate to pair with another class. I took this alongside Machine Learning. It had some interesting content, but overall there wasn't much. I think you would probably be disappointed if this was the only class you spent a semester on, but this could also be good if you're looking for a light semester as a sort of break.
The assignments are not difficult but can be time-consuming with the tables you have to create. Some of the instructions are also not very clear, and require you to dig through Ed to get some clarity. These can feel tedious at times. The midterm exam is not too difficult, and the "final exam" is basically just another assignment using concepts you learned in the course.
In terms of time commitment, I spent very little time on lectures and finished them with over a month left in the class. Some projects could take up to 5-10 hours, but overall they're not too much time and are decently spread out. The rest of the assignments took much less.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 65
Gy5OaSp1sXqgj2vrGqpidg==April 28, 2023spring 2023
Spent more time trying to understand what to do on the assignments than actually doing the assignments.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 7 hours / week

Review 66
yCoMSHwAq8wYY3b/ExJYVA==April 25, 2023spring 2023
Heavily left-wing 'woke' concepts.
The final project literally has you writing a review to support "Professor Woke." From previous semesters' final project:
"Professor Woke decided to create a new course around the theme of Ethical AI. As she browsed the
internet for stories about the abuse and misuse of AI, she became saddened by all of the problems out
there that developers didn’t even seem to be aware of. She worried that the tech backlash against
technologists because of this misuse would override the potential benefits that AI could have for society.
She also worried that developers, even if they hear about this abuse, would not be mindful enough to want
to fix the problem. She wonders if she should just give up and take those offered jobs in corporate
management, which actually pays much better with less worries.
It is your task as a student to convince Professor Woke that, as a technologist, you understand some of
these problems with AI misuse and have ideas about how to address some of the corresponding bias and
unfairness issues."
Save your money, time, and sanity- avoid this class like the plague.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 67
PM9ZOJQTsUIQmv8nTTGxQg==April 18, 2023spring 2023
The best way to describe this course is "a easy bad class". Understanding the assignments was a nightmare as they were poorly written and confusing, which took away from potentially interesting discussions that could have been had in Ed Lessons. Instead, Ed Lessons became a spam filled cry for help from students not understanding instructions. This is where all the difficulty came from. I ended up getting low grades on the assignments because of how unclear the directions were. As others have noted, I did not learn anything in this course and I am happy it is over.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 2 hours / week

Review 68
5ntoHIQ+ffutmFLY2K2y9w==April 1, 2023spring 2023
I learned something about ethics and being mindful of how to make software. I learned pandas/formatting tables, and python. it was a gentle intro to AI/ML at least, it would initiate you to learn something about classification algos in ML.
HOWEVER, the assignments were unnecessarily a drag. If it was written clearly, it would not take me 25 hours to 30 hours just to write tables because the questions were not properly explained, no example expectations, just plain, vague questions. I hope they would re write the assignments. The course has potentials and it is also a good course for anyone who wants to be in AI/ML career
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 4 / 5Workload: 20 hours / week

Review 69
gwVL18q7AVSu+ErUq1eTYg==April 1, 2023fall 2022
I highly recommend this course to anyone wanting a long term career in AI. The homework and content is easy to understand and finish. Many people take this class without more and deeper thinking afterwards, especially fail to apply this in everyday life and career. By deeper thinking and flexible application, one would figure out pretty quickly the prospect of whatever AI news on the spotlight at the moment, ChatGPT as one. I found that sometimes I am quite caught up with the excitement with the advancement of the new techs, wishfully thinking everyone else is just as excited and more than willing to pay for it as I do. The reality is the majorities are just not like that. They only pay if the new tech satisfies this and that, basically what is being taught in this course. And my job and salary rely heavily on the majority people's payment to continue. If they say the new tech is cool, but they will not pay because of ethics, equality, etc issue, the new tech is only an exciting spark in my life. To plan long term career goal, I found it is wise to invest in this course and it helps to choose the one people, the majority people not just me, find exciting and are willing to pay.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 70
/1u5FzzK+zHpr+lKjt4ujQ==January 29, 2023spring 2023
ChatGPT could pass this class.
(Which is good because I was taking it alongside AI)
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 4 hours / week

Review 71
qhtsmcSkq6ExLX9JfXE9cQ==January 12, 2023fall 2022
Requires an active social media account. They suggest Facebook. If you don't have one, then the suggestion is to sign up for social media and use it until you have at least 50 data points of targeted advertisements. Ironic that an ethics class would require students to sign up for a toxic social media account specifically to divulge personal information.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 1 hours / week

Review 72
ZN9uVRB/TlU1+5KZLa6fUA==December 28, 2022fall 2022
Very easy! Check out a full review of the course here https://youtu.be/wQOSeCC5oss
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 1 hours / week

Review 73
CeCFXKcZ3Al9kC8Wvk5heA==December 19, 2022fall 2022
Ugh I said "busy" in my review bellow, I meant "easy"
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 74
CeCFXKcZ3Al9kC8Wvk5heA==December 19, 2022fall 2022
Bottom line: Class is ridiculously busy and you learn basically nothing (unless you are in high school or may be first year undergrad).
I learned some formatting techniques for python (tables, plotting etc. ). I also learned what the protected domains and classes were (literally just the list of what they are).
Three of the project homework assignments were basically the same. Midterm was really simple (just general understanding of the ppt charts). Class discussions and written critiques were just follow the rubric.
Everything was just follow the rubric. I do not even know if they really looked at the answers and how you got them. I thought I bombed the final project and the final. I was over the class and was OK if I got a B (which with getting close to a zero on each I would have had). I got 100% on both . Not a brag but again just to show if you follow the rubric you score high. I ended up with a 99.04% total for the whole class, the highest I ever had in any course.
So getting an A is simple. The problem is you really learn nothing as I said above. The measures of bias and fairness were never explored. Which is a bit of a disappointment. You come to think that AI Ethics is nothing more than removing bias terms from a ML dataset (or just weighting against a privileged group). The subject seems very irrelevant and that people out there make a bigger deal of its importance than necessary compared to the solution for the problem. Maybe this is wrong, but you don't really know after taking this class.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 75
77B+lTxwhcKwkFMB7LlpgA==December 15, 2022fall 2022
The other reviews aren’t exaggerations. This class really is a joke.
The projects are nothing more than pointless busy work (there’s not even a paper format you need to follow) that do nothing to teach you about the subject. Half the assignments are literally “compare these simple statistics you learned in elementary school and then use this open source library on the data”.
If the projects weren’t enough of a joke, the exercises and critiques are even worse. These are what all of them were: Read this short paper and write a paragraph summary then comment on two of your classmate’s summaries or do this 5 minute activity and write a 2 page paper on it.
The final exam was to find an academic paper and summarize it in 2 pages. Also a joke.
Perhaps the most egregious thing about this course is that for some reason it would take over a month to grade any of this.
If you’re looking for an “easy” class that is also worthwhile, take Dr. Joiner’s HCI course. As a side effect you’ll even learn more about ethics than you do in this class plus what you learn is applicable to industry unlike this joke.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 2 hours / week

Review 76
NYOuWkXHMdgPL2r/spYhSA==December 10, 2022fall 2022
This semester, I took my 7th and 8th courses. So as of now, I am 4/5 done with this program, and this course is the only one where I feel like I have 100% wasted my money and time by taking this course.
It's just bad. You won't learn anything interesting about morals or ethics. You won't learn anything interesting about artificial intelligence. And you'll only just barely learn anything interesting about big data and how it's manipulated.
If the lessons are bad, the work is abysmal. It's all easy, but some of it contains ludicrous amounts of busywork. Half of the assignments are made up of multiple steps, which are comprised of things like, "Run this algorithm on this list of 50 sets of words in a text file, and then make a table in a Word Document showing the different outputs for each set of words." or "Create 3 graphs each for these 5 datasets and then describe the differences between each one". You are not going to get better at programming, but you'll probably get better at copy and pasting things into a table, or screenshotting MatPlotLib outputs.
This class is just terrible. But it is easy and doesn't take up that much time. So if that's why you're taking it, go ahead. If not, stay far away.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 4 hours / week

Review 77
lSGcFVFlS4Ae5h4gu6w/VA==December 10, 2022fall 2022
This is the worst class I have ever been in. What an absolute waste of time. Busy work, unclear directions, and teaches nothing. Yes, they grade very easily and you will get an A. But the frustration is not worth it.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 78
aPUo+fai3Uca5eV1JXAiNw==December 6, 2022fall 2022
I really thought the reviews for this class were exaggerating. But no, this class really sucks and is an embarrassment for OMSCS. It takes the fascinating topic of AI Ethics and butchers it. I would often work on the assignments in bulk and take weeks off until I did the same again and repeated. Frequently, I would not have work to do for 3 weeks since I worked ahead. The material is trash, I learned nothing as it was very basic material. The TAs aren't that good either, usually giving generic answers to questions which led to assignments being a jumbled mess of busy work. Overall, this class sucked.
The workload is very light, the class is an easy A so if you want that, go for it. But be warned that it'll probably just make you hate the topic and question OMSCS' decision to keep this class.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 4 hours / week

Review 79
tCtBTugDMtAm7OiqMamQGg==November 7, 2022fall 2022
Worst ever
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 80
+GAWcCHrs85l5J64h64+BA==November 5, 2022summer 2022
This course was filled with an insane amount of busywork.
Also... I went in not knowing much about Ethics, and I came out knowing even less. The best comparison for this class would be sitting in a parking lot, and being given the assignment "count how many red cars, blue cars, and black cars there are".
Literally.
Easy A. Not worth it.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 15 hours / week

Review 81
57lhB9rcBYFcS7Kne9Xr/g==August 22, 2022summer 2022
I feel the workload is significantly amped up, or maybe I feel so because I took it in a summer semester. You always have a homework or assignment due the week, and the assignments increase in difficulty - with each of them taking a minimum of 4 hours to maybe a maximum of 8-10 hours.
With that out of the picture, I still enjoyed the course though it is not technically/conceptually difficult. There were many thought provoking aspects to it, and the course helped me to now look at tech through a different lens that I didn't previously possess
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 10 hours / week

Review 82
gRswpOgD67Q80LXaMUZC2w==August 9, 2022spring 2022
Many students are giving unfavorable reviews, but I think this course is great, because it addresses an aspect that is usually overlooked by tech geeks, which is how to design ethical systems for the human society.
I admit that sometimes this course is technically easy, but ethics is not about solving a difficult mathematical problem, but about the impact it gives to the lives of thousands of people. Throughout this course, I could see students giving simple answers without elaboration, and reaching conclusions without justifications. I think that is why students think the course is easy.
Being a student, if you insist enough to provide justifications on every judgement, then your answer on each ethical decision should be in much greater details then the other casual students. I think that is the attitude that we should possess, when we make design decisions that affects different races or genders or countries of origin. (I have worked in government, and bureaucracy requires detailed justifications on every step along the way to reaching a system design for the general public.)
Incidents on Facebook (target advertising that excludes a certain race), COVID vaccine passports, ArriveCAN that uses data analytics or even prediction models to trace the tested-positive or unaccented , China face recognition system and COVID health codes, nation-wide surveillance... These are systems that greatly affect or even control our lives. These systems would become better (or cease to exist) if every system designer or developer knows the AI ethics good enough, and are bold enough to do the "ethical" thing. In additions, political issues such as LGBTQ+ and race induced debiasing (which is usually supported by "left wing" or Democrats), while over-debiasing may become an issue if a heterosexual white man is being discriminated instead (which is usually a concern by "right wing" or Republicans). I think a balanced discussion with supportive evidence would be great answers to many homework and projects in this course.
Overall, I think this course introduces a lot of topics that we can further drill on, incl. protected classes (race, sex, country of origin, etc.), laws, cheating with statistics, aif360, Google what-if, and other contemporary issues. Even if this course is (mathematically) easy, I would still encourage students to take it.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 3 / 5Workload: 15 hours / week

Review 83
Georgia Tech StudentMay 9, 2022spring 2022
If you're planning to take this class you already know what you're getting yourself into. Just like everyone else has said this class is easier than a high school class. The assignments are pointless and repetitive (Like copy/paste lots of numbers pointless). I did not watch a single minute of the lectures and got a 99.7% on the midterm and 100 on the final. I did each homework assignment the day it was due and had little problem. I'd recommend this class if you need to get an A. Just turn everything in and I promise you will get an A.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 84
Georgia Tech StudentMay 2, 2022spring 2022
Fairly easy class overall. As other students have mentioned earlier, the assignments are very repetitive and time consuming at times. This is a great class to take if you have a lot going on in your life.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 85
Georgia Tech StudentMay 1, 2022spring 2022
I very, very strongly disliked this class. I have bachelor's degrees in philosophy and applied ethics. This class should not have ethics in its name. I was hoping for an AI ethics course. This is a data science course.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 86
Georgia Tech StudentMay 1, 2022spring 2022
This class is extremely easy, so its great if you want to pair with a harder class or if have demanding work/home life already.
With that said, this has been my least liked class so far (out of 8 total). The entire class content could have been condensed into a 3 or 4 page paper. To be clear, the content is important - people making and using ML/AI need to account for potential bias in the training data - but this just shouldn't be a semester long class, or a masters level class. The assignments are extremely repetitive/boring. They are easy, but you'll come to dread doing them because or how pointless they are. You will spend more time reading the instructions than you will doing the assignments.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 87
Georgia Tech StudentApril 3, 2022spring 2022
Like many reviews say, this course is easy if you have a data science background or you have a teammate with such experience. Working on it alone with no prior experience definitely poses some challenge. A lot of time gets spent on plotting graphs and figuring out how to do the requirements. A realistic week might be 10 hours/week while doing projects and having no prior experience.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 88
Georgia Tech StudentMarch 27, 2022spring 2022
I feel like this course got tweaked to increase the workload and the end result is you have a lot of pointless busywork in assignments and some assignments can be kind of challenging if you don't have a data science background because it's asking data science questions without teaching you how to answer them
The ethical discussion topics were interesting and can be banged out in like 20 minutes
Assignments are kind of hit or miss with some being a decent amount of work
Take this course if you have a data science background and are looking for a super easy course or if you don't have a data science background and are looking for a semi-easy course
Rating this course as "disliked" because there is a lot of pointless busy work (e.g.: Make a graph for this 1 set of data and then repeat the process 10 more times to create a total of 11 graphs so you end up wasting hours of time without learning anything)
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 12 hours / week

Review 89
Georgia Tech StudentJanuary 14, 2022fall 2021
I regretted not pairing this course with a more challenging one. This course is very easy, although some assignments can be annoying because you are creating the same figure 20+ times. The lecture is interesting but does not go into too much depth in bias mitigation.
TAs are great and the grading is fair. My main suggestions are 1) pair it with a more difficult class, or save it for the semester that you barely have any time for class; I spent on average 2-3 hours a week; 2) the group project allows for individual submissions. Do it yourself instead of finding a group. The project is very straightforward and I was able to complete it in one day by myself and got 100/100. You will probably end up wasting more time communicating with group members.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 90
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 29, 2021fall 2021
This was my 4th class in OMSCS. I was in the middle of a job change, moving from one state to another and took this along with INTA-6450 ( Data analytics and Security). This was an easy pair except for the week i was traveling. I was able to work ahead in AIES and finish the assignments to get some time for my move.
The assignments were easy to finish but gave a lot of learning to me since i am new to pandas and Scikit-learn. It seemed like a lot of unnecessary work plotting 20 graphs with different combinations and writing reports. This class is a good introduction to the data analytics and provides exposure to jupyter, pandas, matplotlib, and makes you familiar with handling/manipulating data and displaying graphs. For some of the assignments, instructions were not very clear, so there were lots of piazza threads asking for clarity. Vijay from the TA team was very active and helpful in responding to all the queries.
The mid term exam was a mess for me because of honorlock issue that kept blocking me from opening any document on my laptop even though the exam was open book. I did score around the median and was able to get 90+ in overall.
The final exam was just about picking up an article related to AI ethics and write a report about it with the supporting data. The difficult part was finding a recent article/video published within last 6 months that had enough supporting data reference in it. Once you find the suitable article, it was pretty easy to write the paper.
Final Project was a group project (group of 4) where i struggled a bit because most of the group members were absent due to personal and professional reasons. Thanksgiving was also one of the reasons our group couldn't meet.
Most of the team members were more comfortable working with Excel and didn't want to use python for the project unless it became absolutely necessary. I had to do most of the coding 1 day prior to submission for the steps where we needed to submit the code. Most frustrating part was someone in the group asking : why we used certain function/method at the last moment when we didn't had time.
So if you get a good group, the final project should be easy-peasy. The grading on final exam and project was very lenient.
Last week of the semester was little busy with final project, final exam , critique and discussion all pending around the same time.
Overall, an easy class with some learning for me.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 5 hours / week

Review 91
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 18, 2021fall 2021
This was my 8th class in the program, and I have experienced both higher workload classes (AI, recent CP to name a couple) and this class is around half the workload of those.
I went into this class a little skeptical, but I was pleased with the course. The lectures were well done. I can't say that all the lecture material was needed for the projects and exams, but certainly make sure you pay close attention to protected classes and domains as those show up on nearly every assignment.
If you're looking for an intro to the data analytics space, this is a good prep for that with exposure to jupyter, pandas, matplotlib, and gets you use to handling data and displaying some graphs.
Grading was fair in my opinion as long as you "checked the boxes" of everything the assignments asked for. Most assignments had some vagueness, but found that a lot of it can be done at your own interpretation as long as you describe what you did.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 92
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 14, 2021fall 2021
The course presents very interesting topics and discussions. It also serves as a great introductory course for data science, pandas, numpy, etc.
As others mentioned, the course itself is easy when compared to other courses in the OMSCS program. However, easy is subjective. The course is easy for those already experienced in Python / Pandas, etc. but it may be challenging to those who lack experience with Jupyter Notebooks.
While I did have experience in Python, this was my first time deep diving into Python for Data Science. By starting assignments early and watching tutorials on the side, I found the homework to be very easy. However, it is time-consuming. My advice is to start early and don't leave your homework for the last-minute.
My only complaint about the entire course is the way the instructors wrote the assignment instructions. I found that I often spent a lot more time trying to decipher what the instructions were asking for than actually working on the assignment itself. I found that classmates experienced the same issue and would post for clarification on Piazza. If a clarification in Piazza was made, the instructions were never updated to reflect that clarification. Because of this, I had to skim through many posts to ensure I'm completing the assignment correctly.
Anyways, the class is also composed of discussions which are very easy. It's just a matter of answering the prompt and responding to two other classmates. The midterm was open notes and consisted of a mix of multiple choice and write-in questions. I felt that there were trick questions but received a passing grade either way. The final exam was converted into a take-home essay that had its challenges but it wasn't difficult. I felt that the grading was more than fair. I received perfect scores in all assignments minus the midterm. I am in no way an expert in Pandas but this course is definitely do-able as a beginner.
I can see how this course would be a freebie to those whom are more experienced in the field of machine learning. I can see how someone who has taken courses such as ML or AI would find this class boring. However, the course is meant to be an introduction. I enjoyed it.
Rating: 5 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 20 hours / week

Review 93
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 13, 2021fall 2021
The class overall is very easy compared to other OMSCS classes. The content is interesting and somewhat engaging but it defintely won't be nearly as technical as other classes. As a word of caution, though the class is easy some homeworks and projects are time consuming. The trick for these is to simply just put down coherent thoughts and as long as it makes sense you'll be able to get High A's. The midterm was suprisingly harder than i expected but nothing crazy. Final project is a good chunk of work however so try to find a group for that.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 94
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 13, 2021fall 2021
Yes it's a "freebie" but it also does its goal of teaching you things without beating you over the head with it and boring you out. While the material and level of effort is more indicative of an introductory class, the discussions and lecture content are at least pertinent to current events and can be applied directly to them. I've taken other "freebie" classes that were just absolutely painful to get through (boring projects, boring reading, boring lectures, etc).
As other reviews mention, this mainly focuses on discerning bias and ethical harms towards protected classes (age, gender, etc). There's some very rudimentary statistics and bias mitigation techniques taught through the lens of discussions and homework assignments where you apply them. If you want you can pretty much skip the lectures altogether and just do the assignments without too much difficulty.
Exams are very simple and straightforward, no gotchas, simply just reviewing concepts that will be (at that point) well-reviewed and discussed a lot. I can see (from ML point of view) how this class may be frustrating (it doesn't really do nearly enough exercises in bias mitigation/examining ML implementations and strategies for ethical concerns) because it mainly focuses on the social side of this topic, but unless you signed up for the class without reading reviews then some part of you just wanted an easy class with low level of effort and this is exactly that.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 95
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 7, 2021fall 2021
Get a grip, y'all. Take a hard look at yourselves.
You came to OMSCentral to read the horrible reviews.
You are under no obligation to take this class. There are other ML electives available. RL, DL, etc.
You basically chose this class anyway (1) as a freebie to fulfil your ML elective; (2) because the workload is low; and (3) you don't need to spend on your non-CS/CSE token.
You came back to OMSCentral to remark further that this class isn't worth your money. It's a freebie, duh.
See this vicious cycle?
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 96
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 7, 2021fall 2021
My background is in data science. I took AIES because I am in another course this semester that requires over 20 hours/week, so I just needed something light to pair with it. For this purpose, AIES was satisfactory for me. The TA's (especially Vijay on Piazza) are very responsive, timely with grading, and generally helpful. I think a lot of student questions were due to a bit of ambiguity in the assignment descriptions, so maybe they could look into improving those.
I gave this course a "Dislike" because the only thing we've covered all semester is "Protected Classes". Protected Classes are features in a dataset like race, age, sex, etc. You don't want to build an AI that incorporates historical biases due to an unbalanced distribution of such features. In the preceding sentences, I have covered what you'll spend a whole semester on. It's tedious to do assignment after assignment on the same thing. I do think it's possible to expand the breadth of topics covered in the class while keeping it brief and engaging, but it would need to be overhauled.
The lectures are pretty good. Prof. Howard picked rather relevant examples of AI ethics issues. I thought they were well structured and clear.
There are only about 5 coding assignments. I think they took me about 5-6 hours each (but I have 3 hours/week since other weeks were just discussions on the class forum, which were ~30mins to do). The assignments are more tedious than difficult (little things like formatting tables, copying and pasting text, etc. take up the most time). They kinda felt like busy work. If you're learning Python and Pandas/Numpy though, I could see them being a good warm-up to harder Python-based courses in OMSCS.
I haven't taken the final yet. The midterm was pretty easy, and I personally don't think any preparation at all is needed to do well on it.
The final project is perhaps the most useful part of the class if you do it all on your own instead of in a group. I learned a decent amount with it regarding fairness metrics to gauge "unbalancedness" and how to reweight the data to improve fairness.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 97
Georgia Tech StudentDecember 4, 2021fall 2021
This was a waste of a class. I, like many others here, took the class as a freebie, but I can say that I sincerely learned nothing. It was extremely repetitive- I think the professor's emphasis on protected classes was important, but every assignment and video focused on some iteration of that. We didn't delve into different schools of ethics, and no part of the class required any critical thinking. My undergrad ethics class was far more challenging and thought-provoking than this one. It's disappointing, because such an important topic deserves to be treated with respect. I agree with other reviewers who mentioned that Joyner should remake this class. It'd be far more engaging, challenging and thought provoking.
Rating: 2 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 2 hours / week

Review 98
Georgia Tech StudentNovember 15, 2021fall 2021
Other reviews already provide a synopsis of what to expect. I took it as I wanted a light course load with straightforward assignments. The only thing that is somewhat time consuming in this course is the homework assignments, but they can be knocked out in a half day or day if you're somewhat familiar with Python using some of the data science libraries. Given the other reviews, I went in with low expectations and was actually a little surprised that some of the Python homeworks weren't as straightforward as suggested. Not difficult but not as gimme grades as what I anticipated.
Other than that, everything else is coming up with reasonable answers for participation. The material is a little repetitive about what bias is and most of the information is common sense. The midterm was a little nitpicky but nothing too bad to ruin your grade. As others mentioned, take this course if you want a straightforward course or a lighter workload. Happy I took the course after reading the reviews as they painted an accurate picture about what to expect and motivations to take the course.
Rating: 4 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 8 hours / week

Review 99
Georgia Tech StudentNovember 11, 2021fall 2021
I agree with most of what is written already that this class had a lot of potential since the topics are of incredible importance and relevance in today's society, but the execution is poor.
I feel like if Joyner took over this course, it could be an HCI-style class with weekly writing assignments to make you think deeply about how ethics play a huge part in everyday decisions and is something that computer scientists need to grapple with as ethics start to take center stage in many of today's innovations and technologies.
I would not underestimate the assignments. They are tedious and took me quite some time to complete. They are not hard by any means but they require making a ton of graphs, data cleaning, and interpreting the instructions. The final project I chose to do alone and oh boy, it was rough (time wise). I got it completed but it was no fun.
This is a good class to pair or if you just want an extremely easy semester to rest up from harder courses. The ML track has a ton of time consuming courses and it's not a bad thing to have a freebie to help you to gain your strength back.
Rating: 3 / 5Difficulty: 2 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week

Review 100
Georgia Tech StudentNovember 7, 2021fall 2021
This course is disappointing because it has the potential to be a really interesting topic and it completely falls flat. The lectures cover some interesting material, and some of the supplementary readings are insightful, but the graded work is so easy that a dedicated middle schooler could probably get an A in this course. The most complicated assignment in this course requires you to plot about fifteen graphs and calculate mean, median, and mode of some data.
There's "exercise" (the class's term for a discussion prompt) that requires you to use an online tool to attempt to mitigate bias in a dataset. The tool links to a python library that you can use on your own to attempt your own manipulations to datasets. In the project that focuses on dataset bias, the course staff recommends against using this library, as it is somewhat complicated to use.
This is a computer science masters program. Having a course that requires effectively zero computer science knowledge or ability devalues the entire program.
Rating: 1 / 5Difficulty: 1 / 5Workload: 3 hours / week
